[[!meta title="Bit Che"]]
*	 Authors: Alberto Zanella, Alberto Buffolino, other contributors.
*	 download [stable version][1]
*	 download [development version][3]

Bit Che is a simple tool that quickly searches popular bit torrent sites for files.
You can get more information about this program at [this page][2].

This NVDA addon improves the accessibility of the software. It adds the following features:

- Makes the search results list accessible.
- Enables you to use the Application key to activate the context menu on the focused result.


## Notes ##
*	 You can use the up and down arrow keys to focus the search result which should be interacted with.
*	 When the first search performed after starting Bit Che is finished, the first result will be focused, though it may not be selected properly. NVDA will speak the selected result. Use the usual commands or the arrow keys to ensure the right item is selected before performing other actions.


## Key Commands ##
*	Application key, or shift+f10, open context menu for search result item.


## Changes for 2.0 ##
* Add-on help is available from the Add-ons Manager.

## Changes for 1.5 ##
* Translation updates.

## Changes for 1.4 ##
*	 Added download link for development version.

## Changes for 1.3 ##
*	 Added onInstall function, to check if an older version is present, and remove it.

## Changes for 1.2 ##
*	 Added gesture shift+F10, in addition to applications, useful in VM.

## Changes for 1.1 ##
*	 Improved accessibility of results list and its items.

## Changes for 1.0 ##
*	 Initial version.

[[!tag dev stable]]

[1]: http://addons.nvda-project.org/files/get.php?file=bc

[2]: http://www.convivea.com

[3]: http://addons.nvda-project.org/files/get.php?file=bc-dev
