= Using TortoiseSVN =

In this file we'll try to explain TortoiseSVN so you don't need to fiddle with SVN and Git.
Warning! This file might be incomplete and include errors.
If you are allready using TortoiseSVN please helpt to improve this guide.

== Downloading and installing TortoiseSVN ==
Download it from 
http://tortoisesvn.net and install it.

The default TortoiseSVN settings and properties are fine, so no need to change anything.

== Checking out the repository ==
To checkout the screenreader translations repository create a directory e.g. named Translations, right click on it and from the Context menu select SVN Checkout...
Copy and paste the following url into the repository url edit box:
http://subversion.assembla.com/svn/screenReaderTranslations

== updating the repository
To update the repository simply select the Translations folder in your explorer right click on it and activate SVN update.

== Committing Changes to the Project ==
If you translated diffs, changed userguide and so on you can commit the changes by right clicking on your language code
inside the translation folder and select SVN commit from the menu.

In the dialog you should write a Commit message with your language code and a description of the work that was done.
You can check/uncheck the files to be committed.
Changed files are checked automatically.
If you deleted a file or folder in windows, 
by default it is unchecked in this dialog, so you have to check it for it to be deleted from the repository on the server.

== Reverting changes ==
If you deleted a file by mistake or something like that you can revert the changes by right clicking on the Translations folder, and select TortoiseSVN -> revert out of the menu.

All other entrys in the menu are not necessary for every day usage.
