Hướng dẫn sử dụng NVDA NVDA_VERSION 


%!includeconf: ../userGuide.t2tconf
%kc:title: NVDA NVDA_VERSION Commands Quick Reference

= Mục lục=[toc]
%%toc

+ Giới thiệu+
NonVisual Desktop Access (NVDA) là một phần mềm đọc màn hình miễn phí, mã nguồn mở trên hệ điều hành windows.
Cung cấp các phản hồi qua tiếng nói và qua màn hình nổi để giúp người khiếm thị có thể sử dụng được máy tính mà không tốn chi phí.
NVDA được phát triển bởi công ty [NV Access http://www.nvaccess.org/], với sự đóng góp và hỗ trợ từ cộng đồng.

++ Các tính năng chung++
NVDA cho phép người khiếm thị tương tác và sử dụng máy tính với hệ điều hành Windows và các ứng dụng khác.

Một số tính năng nổi bật như:
- Hỗ trợ tương tác với các ứng dụng phổ biến như các trình duyệt web, chương trình thư điện tử, chương trình chat và bộ ứng dụng văn phòng Microsoft office
- Tích hợp bộ tổng hợp tiếng nói hỗ trợ 43 ngôn ngữ khác nhau
- thông báo các thuộc tính của phông chữ (nếu có) như tên phông, kích thước, kiểu chữ, v..v và thông báo lỗi chính tả
- Tự động thông báo text và các đối tượng ở dưới vị trí con trỏ chuột
- Hỗ trợ nhiều kiểu màn hình nổi khác nhau
- có thể chạy trực tiếp từ ổ USB hay các thiết bị lưu trữ khác mà không cần phải cài đặt
- Dễ dàng cài đặt với chương trình cài đặt có tích hợp tiếng nói
- Hỗ trợ giao diện với 44 ngôn ngữ khác nhau
- Hỗ trợ các hệ điều hành Windows 32bit và 64 bit
- có khả năng chạy trong cửa sổ đăng nhập của Windows và trong các màn hình bảo vệ khác
- Hỗ trợ tương tác với các giao diện phổ biến như Microsoft Active Accessibility, Java Access Bridge, IAccessible2 và UI Automation (UI Automation chỉ được hỗ trợ trong Windows 7 và cao hơn)
- Hỗ trợ đọc trong các màn hình console như màn hình Windows Command line
- 

++ Tính quốc tế ++
Một điều quan trọng là tất cả mọi người trên thế giới không quan trọng ngôn ngữ đều có quyền ngang nhau trong việc tiếp cận với công nghệ.
Bên cạnh tiếng anh thì NVDA được dịch sang 44 ngôn ngữ khác nhau như: Afrikaans, Albanian, Amharic, Arabic, Aragonese, Brazilian Portuguese, Bulgarian, Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Farsi, Finnish, French, Galician, Greek, Georgian, German, Hebrew, Hindi, Hungarian, Icelandic, Irish, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Nepali, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Swedish, Tamil, Thai, Traditional and Simplified Chinese, Turkish, Ukrainian and Vietnamese.

++ Hỗ trợ các bộ tổng hợp tiếng nói ++
Ngoài việc hỗ trợ giao diện với nhiều ngôn ngữ khác nhau, NVDA còn hỗ trợ bộ tổng hợp tiếng nói có khả năng đọc được nội dung với nhiều ngôn ngữ.

NVDA đã tích hợp sẵn  [eSpeak http://espeak.sourceforge.net/], một bộ tổng hợp tiếng nói đa ngôn ngữ, miễn phí và mã nguồn mở.

Thông tin về các bộ tổng hợp tiếng nói mà NVDA hỗ trợ có thể tìm thấy tại  [Supported Speech Synthesizers #SupportedSpeechSynths].

++ Hỗ trợ các màn hình nổi ++
Với người dùng có thiết bị màn hình nổi thì NVDA cho phép xuất thông tin ra các màn hình nổi.
Có thể xem tại  [Supported Braille Displays #SupportedBrailleDisplays] để biết thêm thông tin về việc hỗ trợ các kiểu màn hình nổi.

NVDA hỗ trợ các mã chữ nổi cho nhiều ngôn ngữ khác nhau.

++ Giấy phép và bản quyền ++
Bản quyền NVDA thuộc về NVDA_COPYRIGHT_YEARS cộng đồng NVDA.

NVDA được bảo vệ bởi  GNU General Public License (Phiên bản 2).
Bạn có thể tùy ý chia sẻ cho người khác, thay đổi theo ý của mình theo giấy phép đó, bạn cũng có thể chia sẻ mã nguồn cho người khác.
Điều này áp dụng cho cả bản gốc, bản chỉnh sửa hay bất cứ phần phát sinh nào khác.
Để biết thêm thông tin chi tiết, xin xem tại  [view the full licence. http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.html]

+ yêu cầu hệ thống +
- Hệ điều hành: tất cả các phiên bản 32bit và 63bit của Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7 và Windows 8 (bao gồm cả hệ điều hành cho máy chủ)
 - Đối với Windows XP 32-bit, NVDA yêu cầu Service Pack 2 hoặc cao hơn
 - Đối với Windows Server 2003, NVDA yêu cầu Service Pack 1 hoặc cao hơn
- Bộ nhớ RAM: 256 mb hoặc cao hơn
- Tốc độ bộ vi xử lý: 1.0 ghz hoặc cao hơn
- yêu cầu ít nhất 50 MB không gian lưu trữ ổ cứng
-

+ Tải và cài đặt NVDA +
Nếu bạn chưa có NVDA thì có thể tải về từ trang web  [www.nvaccess.org NVDA_URL].

Tìm đến phần Download và bạn sẽ thấy liên kết để tải phiên bản mới nhất của NVDA.

chạy tập tin vừa tải về sẽ khởi động chương trình NVDA tạm thời.
Sau đó bạn sẽ được hỏi là cài đặt NVDA trên máy, tạo bản chạy trực tiếp hay tiếp tục sử dụng phiên bản tạm thời đó.

Nếu bạn muốn tất cả người dùng trên máy của bạn đều có thể sử dụng được NVDA thì bạn nên cài đặt nó trên máy.
Việc cài đặt NVDA sẽ cho phép bạn sử dụng một số tính năng như tự động khởi động cùng Windows, chạy NVDA trong màn hình đăng nhập và các màn hình bảo vệ khác (mà không có trong bản tạm thời và bản chạy trực tiếp) và tạo các mục trong menu start, tạo biểu tượng trên màn hình Desktop.
Nếu bạn muốn NVDA có thể chạy từ ổ USB hay các phương tiện lưu trữ khác, bạn có thể chọn chức năng tạo bản chạy trực tiếp.
Tạo bản chạy trực tiếp cũng cho phép bạn cài đặt vào trong máy tính sau đó.
tuy nhiên nếu bạn muốn tạo bản chạy trực tiếp trên ổ CD (phương tiện lưu trữ chỉ đọc) thì bạn nên tải bản chạy trực tiếp về ổ CD.
Hiện tại chưa hỗ trợ chạy bản chạy trực tiếp từ các phương tiện lưu trữ đó.

Bản NVDA tạm thời thường được sử dụng với mục đích demo.

++ Hạn chế của phiên bản tạm thời và bản chạy trực tiếp ++
bên cạnh việc không thể tự khởi động cùng Windows thì bản chạy trực tiếp và bản tạm thời có các hạn chế sau:
- Khả năng tương tác với các ứng dụng yêu cầu quyền quản trị, trừ trường hợp NVDA đang được chạy với quyền quản trị (không khuyến cáo.
- Khả năng đọc các thông tin tài khoản người dùng(UAC) khi khởi động một ứng dụng mà yêu cầu quyền quản trị.
- Windows 8: Khả năng hỗ trợ tương tác trên màn hình cảm ứng.
- Windows 8: Khả năng tương tác như chế độ duyệt tài liệu (browse mode) hay đọc các ký tự trong Windows Store apps.
-

++ Cài đặt NVDA ++
Nếu bạn cài đặt từ gói NVDa bạn tải về thì bạn có thể chọn nút Install NVDA.
nếu bạn cài từ bản chạy trực tiếp thì bạn có thể chọn mục Install NVDA từ menu Tools trong menu của NVDA.

Cửa sổ cài đặt xuất hiện sẽ thông báo cho bạn là NVDA sẽ được cài đặt mới hoặc nâng cấp phiên bản NVDA đang có trên máy của bạn.
chọn nút Continue sẽ bắt đầu cài đặt NVDA.
có một số tùy chọn như dưới đây:
Sau khi việc cài đặt kết thúc sẽ có một thông báo về việc cài đặt đã thành công.
Chọn nút OK để khởi động lại bản NVDA vừa cài đặt.

+++ Khởi động trong màn hình đăng nhập của Windows +++
Tùy chọn này cho phép NVDA có thể khởi động trong màn hình đăng nhập của windows, trước khi bạn nhập mật khẩu.
tùy chọn này cũng áp dụng cho màn hình UAC và các màn hình bảo vệ khác.

+++ Tạo biểu tượng trên màn hình Desktop (ctrl+alt+n) +++
Tùy chọn này sẽ tạo biểu tượng NVDA trên màn hình Desktop để bạn có thể khởi động NVDa từ biểu tượng này.
Nếu biểu tượng đó được tạo thì nó sẽ được gán 1 phím tắt là Ctrl + alt + N, khi ấn tổ hợp phím này thì NVDA sẽ được khởi động.

+++ Sao chép thư mục cấu hình từ bản chạy trực tiếp tới thư mục cấu hình người dùng +++
Tùy chọnnày sẽ copy thư mục cấu hình của bản NVDA hiện tại sang thư mục cấu hình của người dùng hiện tại, trong quá trình cài đặt NVDA. 
Nó sẽ không copy tới thư mục cấu hình của các tài khoản khác hay cho hệ thống.
Tùy chọnnày chỉ có trong quá trình cài đặt NVDA từ bản chạy trực tiếp.

++ Tạo bản NVDA chạy trực tiếp ++
nếu bạn chạy bản NVDA chạy trực tiếp từ gói bạn tải về thì bạn có thể chọn nut Create Portable Copy .
Nếu bạn đang sử dụng NVDA được cài đặt trên máy thì bạn có thể tạo bản chạy trực tiếp bằng cách chọn mục Create Portabel copy từ menu Tools của nVDA.

Một cửa sổ sẽ xuất hiện cho phép bạn chọn nơi sẽ tạo bản chạy trực tiếp.
Đó có thể là một thư mục trên ổ đĩa cứng, trên ổ USB hay một phương tiện lưu trữ bất kỳ.
Trên cửa sổ này, bạn cũng có thể chọn tùy chọn copy thư mục cấu hình của người dùng hiện tại sang phiên bản chạy trực tiếp.
tùy chọn này chỉ áp dụng khi bạn tạo bản chạy trực tiếp từ bản NVDA đã cài đặt trên máy, không tồn tại khi tạo bản chạy trực tiếp từ gói cài đặt.
Sau đó ấn nút Continue sẽ tạo bản NVDA chạy trực tiếp cho bạn.
Khi kết thúc sẽ có một thông báo xác nhận là việc tạo bản chạy trực tiếp đã thành công.
Ấn OK để đóng cửa sổ đó.

+ bắt đầu với NVDA +

++ Khởi động NVDA ++
nếu bạn đã cài NVDA thì bạn có thể khởi động nó bằng ấn tổ hợp phím ctrl + alt + N hoặc từ menu start, hoặc bạn có thể gõ nvda vào cửa sổ Run và ấn enter.

Nếu khởi động bản NVDA chạy trực tiếp thì bạn tìm đến thư mục của bản chạy, sau đó tìm tập tin nvda.exe và kích hoạt nó.

Khi NVDA khởi động bạn sẽ nghe thấy một tiếng nhạc thông báo là NVDA đang khởi động.
Tùy thuộc vào tốc độ xử lý trên máy của bạn hay thiết bị lưu trữ bản chạy trực tiếp mà việc khởi động NVDA có thể mất một khoảng thời gian nhỏ.
Nếu phải chờ lâu thì NVDA sẽ thông báo như  "Loading NVDA. Please wait..."

Nếu bạn không nghe thấy các dấu hiệu trên hoặc nghe thấy âm thanh tắt NVDA, hoặc thông báo lỗi từ Windows thì có thể việc khởi động đã có lỗi và bạn cần thông báo với nhà phát triển NVDA để tìm ra nguyên nhân lỗi
xin vui lòng kiểm tra thông tin trên trang web của NVDA để biết thêm thông tin về cách báo lỗi.

Khi NVDA được khởi động thành công trong lần đầu tiên, sẽ có 1 cửa sổ cho phép bạn chọn phím định danh NVDA và menu.
(Xem trong các mục sau để biết thêm thông tin chi tiết về các mục này)
Có 3 hộp kiểm trên cửa sổ này
Hộp kiểm đầu tiên cho phép bạn chọn phím Caplock là phím định danh NVDA.
hộp kiểm thứ hai cho phép NVDA khởi động cùng windows.
Hộp kiểm thứ ba cho phép bạn hiển thị cửa sổ chào mừng này mỗi khi khởi động NVDA.

++ Các lệnh bàn phím của nVDA ++

+++ Phím định danh NVDA +++
Các phím tắt trong NVDA thường là một tổ hợp phím với sự kết hợp của phím trong NVDA với các phím khác.
ngoại trừ trường hợp duyệt text trong kiểu bàn phím Desktop sử dụng các phím số bên bàn phím số và một vài trường hợp ngoại lệ khác.

NVDA cho phép bạn có thể chọn phím Insert bên bàn phím số, Insert mở rộng hay phím Caplock là phím định danh cho NVDa.

Mặc định thì cả hai phím Insert đều được chọn là phím định danh cho NVDA.

Nếu bạn muốn phím định danh hoạt động theo đúng chức năng của nó(ví dụ phím Caplock) thì bạn ấn nhanh 2 lần phím đó 
+++ Các kiểu bàn phím +++
NVDA có 2 kiểu tập phím tắt.
Đó là kiểu bàn phím Desktop và Laptop.
Mặc định NVDA được set kiểu bàn phím là Desktop nhưng bạn có thể chuyển sang kiểu Laptop bằng cách chọn mục đó trong cửa sổ Keyboard Settings, ở trong thực đơn Tùy chọn của NVDA.

Kiểu bàn phím Desktop sẽ sử dụng các phím bên bàn phím số và yêu cầu tắt phím NumLock.
Mặc dù kiểu bàn phím Laptop không có bàn phím số riêng nhưng bạn có thể sử dụng giống như bàn phím số trên Desktop bằng cách ấn kết hợp phím fn (phím function) với các phím bên phải như 7 8 9 u i o j k l v.v.
Nếu kiểu bàn phím của bạn không cho phép làm điều đó thì bạn nên chọn kiểu bàn phím là Laptop.

++ Phím cảm ứng trong NVDA ++
Nếu bạn đang sử dụng các thiết bị cảm ứng có hệ điều hành windows 8 trở lên thì bạn có thể điều khiển trực tiếp NVDA trên màn hình cảm ứng.
Nếu như NVDA đang chạy thì tất cả các hành động trực tiếp trên màn hình cảm ứng sẽ nằm trong NVDA. 
Do vậy các hành động vẫn có thể được thực hiện bình thường.

+++ Khám phá màn hình +++
hành động phổ biến nhất trên màn hình là thông báo text và các đối tượng ở vị trí bất kỳ trên màn hình.
Để làm điều đó bạn đặt một ngón tay trên màn hình.
Sau đó bạn có thể giữ và di chuyển ngón tay qua các đối tượng và text trên màn hình.

+++ thao tác trên màn hình cảm ứng +++
Trong các phần dưới đây sẽ liệt kê các phím tắt cho bạn thao tác trên màn hình cảm ứng.
Dưới đây là số hướng dẫn về một số thao tác.

==== hành động chạm ====
chạm nhẹ và nhanh một hoặc nhiều ngón tay vào màn hình.

chạm nhẹ một ngón tay vào màn hình gọi là chạm đơn.
chạm haingón tay cùng một lúc vào màn hình gọi là chạm đôi.

Nếu chạm một hoặc hai ngón tay nhiều lần và nhanh thì NVDA coi đó như là hành động đa chạm.
chạm nhanh hai lần liên tiếp gọi là hai chạm.
chạm nhanh 3 lần gọi là ba chạm và tương tự như vậy.
dĩ nhiên là trong mỗi hành động như vậy thì NVDA sẽ nhận biết số ngón tay chạm vào man fhình trong mỗi hành động 

==== hành động vuốt ====
Đó là hành động vuốt nhanh ngón tay của bạn trên màn hình.

có 4 hành động vuốt tùy theo hướng của nó như vuốt sang trái, sang phải, lên trên hay xuống dưới.

giống như hành động chạm thì hành động vuốt có thể thực hiện với một hoặc nhiều ngón tay.
Do vậy mà bạn có thể vuốt với hai hoặc nhiều ngón tay.

+++ Chế độ cảm ứng +++
Có một số chế độ cảm ứng và bạn có thể chuyển qua lại giữa chúng.
Đó là chế độ đối tượng (object mode) và chế độ text(text mode) 
Các phím tắt được mô tả trong tài liệu này sẽ ghi rõ chế độ tiếp xúc ngay sau phần phím tắt.
ví dụ hành động vuốt lên trên (text mode) nghĩa là hoạt động trong chế độ tẽt.
Nếu như phím tắt nào mà không ghi chế độ thì nó có thể hoạt động trong cả hai chế độ đó.

%kc:beginInclude
Để chuyển qua lại giữa các chế độ đó, chạm nhanh  3 ngón tay vào màn hình.
%kc:endInclude

++ Chế độ trợ giúp cho các phím ++
Rất nhiều phím tắt của NVDA được mô tả trong tài liệu hướng dẫn này nhưng có một cách tiếp cận khác là bật chế độ trợ giúp các phím đó.

để bật chế độ trợ giúp này, ấn tổ hợp phím NVDA + 1.
Ấn thêm một lần nữa để tắt nó đi.
Khi chế độ này được bật, nếu bạn ấn một phím tắt nào đó thì nó sẽ thông báo mô tả về phím bạn vừa ấn, chức năng và nhiệm vụ của phím đó.
Khi đó phím đó sẽ không hoạt động.

++ Khám phá thực đơn của NVDA ++
Trong thực đơn của NVDA, bạn có thể thay đổi các thông tin cấu hình cho NVDA, sử dụng các công cụ, xem tài liệu hướng dẫn, quản lý thông tin hay tắt NVDA.

Để mở thực đơn của NVDA khi NVDA đang chạy, bạn có thể ấn tổ hợp phím NVDA + N hoặc chạm nhanh hai lần 2 ngón tay lên màn hình cảm ứng.
Bạn cũng có thể mở thực đơn đó từ khay hệ thống.
Bạn kích hoạt nút chuột phải vào biểu tượng NVDA trên khay hệ thóng hoặc dùng tổ hợp phím Windows + b để chuyển đến khay hệ thống, dùng phím mũi tên để tìm đến NVDA và ấn phím thực đơn ngữ cảnh (phím application) trên biểu tượng NVDA đó.Khi thực đơn hiện ra, bạn dùng các phím mũi tên để khám phá các thực đơn đó và ấn phím enter để kích hoạt mục bạn chọn.

++ Các phím tắt cơ bản ++
%kc:beginInclude
|| Chức năng | Desktop key | Laptop key | Touch | Mô tả |
| Dừng đọc | Control | control | 2-finger tap | Dừng đọc |
| Tạm dừng đọc | shift | shift | none | Tạm dừng đọc (hoặc tiếp tục đọc nếu đã tạm dừng trước đó) |
| Mở thực đơn của NVDA | NVDA+n | NVDA+n | 2-finger double tap | Mở thực đơn của NVDA |
| Chuyển qua lại giữa các chế độ đọc | NVDA+s | NVDA+s | none | Chuyển qua lại giữa các chế độ đọc, bip hay im lặng trong NVDA |
| bật tắt chế độ trợ giúp bàn phím | NVDA+1 | NVDA+1 | none | Bật tắt chế độ thông báo mô tả các phím tắt trong NVDA |
| Tắt NVDA | NVDA+q | NVDA+q | none | Tắt và thoát NVDA |
| Chuyển phím tới hệ thống | NVDA+f2 | NVDA+f2 | none | Truyền phím tiếp theo tới hệ thống mà không thông qua NVDA |
| Bật tắt chế độ im lặng cho ứng dụng | NVDA+shift+s | NVDA+shift+z | none | Bật tắt chế độ im lặng cho ứng dụng hiện tại. chức năng này rất hữu ích khi bạn nghe nhạc |
%kc:endInclude

++ Thông báo thông tin hệ thống ++
%kc:beginInclude
|| Chức năng | Phím tắt | Mô tả |
| Thông báo ngày giờ hệ thống | NVDA+f12 | Ấn 1 lần để nghe giờ, ấn nhanh 2 lần để nghe ngày tháng |
| Thông báo trạng thái Pin | NVDA+shift+b | thông báo tình trạng hiện tại của Pin(phần trăm pin và tình trạng sạc) |
| thông báo dữ liệu trong bộ nhớ đệm | NVDA+c | thông báo dữ liệu trong bộ nhớ đệm (nếu có) |
%kc:endInclude

+ thao tác với NVDA +
nVDA cho phép bạn thao tác theo các chế độ khác nhau, cả ở chế độ bình thường và chế độ duyệt.

++ Khái niệm về đối tượng ++[Objects]
Các ứng dụng và ngay cả hệ điều hành đều chứa các đối tượng.
Một đối tượng là một thành phần riêng rẽ như các nút, các ô nhập liệu, các hộp kiểm, thanh trượt, v..v.

++ thao tác với con trỏ hệ thống ++[SystemFocus]
con trỏ hệ thống hay còn gọi là Focus là  [object #Objects] mà nhận tương tác trực tiếp từ bàn phím.
ví dụ khi bạn gõ văn bản trên một ô nhập liệu thì ô nhập liệu đó được focus.

Một cách đơn giản để chuyển qua lại giữa các đối tượng trên cửa sổ là sử dụng phím tắt chuẩn của Windows, đó là các phím tab hoặc shift + tab để chuyển qua lại giữa các đối tượng, ấn phím alt để truy cập đến thực đơn và dùng các phím mũi tên để khám phá trong thực đơn, dùng phím alt + tab để chuyển qua lại gữa các cửa sổ ứng dụng.
Khi bạn thao tác theo cách đó thì NVDA sẽ thông báo về các đối tượng đang được focus như tên đối tượng , kiểu, vai trò, mô tả, trạng thái, vị trí và cách thao tác trên đối tượng đó.

Có một số phím tắt quan trọng khi thao tác với con trỏ hệ thống là:
%kc:beginInclude
|| chức năng | Desktop key | Laptop key | Mô tả |
| Thông báo focus hiện tại | NVDA+tab | NVDA+tab | Thông báo về đối tượng đang có focus hiện tại. Ấn 2 lần để copy thông tin đó |
| Thông báo tiêu đề | NVDA+t | NVDA+t | Thông báo tiêu đề của cửa sổ hiện tại. Ấn 2 lần để đánh vần tiêu đề, ấn 3 lần để copy |
| thông báo cửa sổ hiện tại | NVDA+b | NVDA+b | Đọc tất cả đối tượng trên cửa sổ hiện tại |
| Thông báo thanh trạng thái | NVDA+end | NVDA+shift+end | thông báo thanh trạng thái của cửa sổ |
%kc:endInclude

++ Thao tác với con trỏ nháy ++[SystemCaret]
Khi một  [object #Objects] cho phép thao tác và chỉnh sửa text trên đó [focused #SystemFocus], bạn có thể di chuyển con trỏ nháy hay còn gọ là con trỏ nhập.

Khi một đối tượng được chọn (có focus) và có con trỏ nháy trên đó thì bạn có thể dùng cac phím mũi tên, các phím page up, page down, các phím Home, end để di chuyển con trỏ nháy.
bạn cũng có thể nhập hay chỉnh sửa text nếu đối tượng đó cho phép.
nVDA sẽ thông báo khi bạn di chuyển qua từng ký tự, từng dòng hay từng trang, đồng thời nó cũng thông báo khi bạn chọn hay bỏ chọn text.

Dưới đây là các phím tắt mà NVDA cung cấp cho việc thao tác với con trỏ nháy:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Chức năng | Desktop key | Laptop key | Mô tả |
| Đọc cả văn bản từ vị trí con trỏ | NVDA+downArrow | NVDA+a | Đọc cả văn bản từ vị trí con trỏ nháy |
| Đọc dòng hiện tại | NVDA+upArrow | NVDA+l | Đọc dòng hiện tại nơi có con trỏ nháy, ấn nhanh 2 lần để đánh vần dòng đó |
| Đọc vùng text đang chọn | NVDA+Shift+upArrow | NVDA+shift+s | Đọc vùng text đang được chọn |


Khi ở trong bảng thì dùng các phím tắt sau để thao tác:
|| chức năng | Key | Mô tả |
| chuyển về cột trước | control+alt+leftArrow | Đưa con trỏ nháy về cột trước đó ( vẫn ở trên cùng dòng) |
| Chuyển sang cột kế tiếp | control+alt+rightArrow | Đưa con trỏ nháy sang cột kế tiếp (vẫn ở trên cùng dòng) |
| Chuyển lên dòng trên | control+alt+upArrow | Đưa con trỏ nháy lên dòng trên ( vẫn ở trong cùng cột) |
| Chuyển xuống dòng bên dưới | control+alt+downArrow | Đưa con trỏ nháy xuống dòng bên dưới (vẫn ở trong cùng cột) |
%kc:endInclude

++ Kỹ thuật duyệt đối tượng ++
Trong quá trình thao tác trên Windows, phần lớn là bạn sẽ thao tác với con trỏ hệ thống và con trỏ nháy.
Tuy nhiên trong một số trường hợp bạn cần khám phá các đối tượng trên cửa sổ ứng dụng hay trong hệ diều hành mà không muốn di chuyển con trỏ hệ thống hay con trỏ nháy.
Bạn có thể sẽ muốn duyệt qua các [đối tượng #Objects] mà thông thường không thể thao tác được bằng bàn phím.
Trong những trường hợp như vậy bạn có thể dùng phương pháp duyệt các đối tượng.

Kỹ thuật này cho phép bạn duyệt qua lại và lấy thông tin về các đối tượng đó.
Khi bạn duyệt qua đối tượng thì NVDA sẽ thông báo thông tin về các đối tượng đó giống như bạn thao tác với con trỏ hệ thống.
đối với việc duyệt text trên màn hình thì bạn có thể sử dụng  phương pháp [duyệt text trên màn hình #ScreenReview].

bên cạnh việc duyệt qua lại giữa các đối tượng riêng lẻ, các đối tượng còn có quan hệ với nhau, đó là quan hệ cha con.
Nghĩa là một số đối tượng chứa các đối tượng khác và bạn có thể duyệt đến các đối tượng con của một đối tượng cha.
Ví dụ một danh sách có thể chứa nhiều mục con, và bạn có thể duyệt sâu vào trong danh sách đó để tìm mục mình muốn.
Khi bạn đã vào trong một đối tượng cha và tìm đến một mục con thì nếu bạn duyệt các đối tượng liền kề thì đó chính là các đối tượng liền kề của đối tượng con đó.
Chuyển đến đối tượng chứa chính là đối tượng cha.
Bạn có thể bỏ qua danh sách để chuyển qua các đối tượng khác.
Tương tự như vậy, một thanh công cụ chứa các mục con và bạn phải duyệt vào trong thanh công cụ thì mới tìm được các mục con đó.

Đối tượng đang được xem gọi là đối tượng đang được duyệt.
Khi bạn duyệt đến một đối tượng, bạn có thể duyệt tiếp nội dung text của nó bằng  [các phím tắt duyệt text #ReviewingText] trong [chế độ duyệt đối tượng #ObjectReview].
Mặc định thì đối tượng duyệt đi liền với con trỏ hệ thống (khi được focus) nhưng bạn có thể bật hoặc tắt chế độ đó.

Chú ý là việc hiển thị trên màn hình nổi phụ thuộc vào  [focus #SystemFocus] và [caret #SystemCaret] và nếu bạn muốn nó có thể hiển thị khi duyệt đối tượng hay duyệt text trên đối tượng thì bạn phải cấu hình cho màn hình nổi ở [Cấu hình màn hỉnh nổi #BrailleTether] review.

Sử dụng các phím tắt sau để duyệt qua các đối tượng:

%kc:beginInclude
|| Chức năng | Desktop key | Laptop key | Touch | Mô tả |
| Thông báo đối tượng hiện tại | NVDA+numpad5 | NVDA+shift+o | none | Thông báo đối tượng đang được duyệt hiện tại, ấn 2 lần để đánh vần thông tin, ấn 3 lần để copy thông tin vào bộ nhớ đệm |
| Chuyển đến đối tượng chứa (cha) | NVDA+numpad8 | NVDA+shift+upArrow | flick up (object mode) | Chuyển lên đối tượng cha mà chứa đối tượng hiện tại |
| Chuyển về đối tượn trước cùng cấp | NVDA+numpad4 | NVDA+shift+leftArrow | flick left (object mode) | Chuyển về đối tượng trước đối tượng hiện tại |
| Chuyển sang đối tượng kế tiếp cùng cấp | NVDA+numpad6 | NVDA+shift+rightArrow | flick right (object mode) | Chuyển sang đối tượng kế tiếp |
| Chuyển đến đối tượng con đầu tiên | NVDA+numpad2 | NVDA+shift+downArrow | flick down (object mode) | Chuyển đến đối tượng con đầu tiên của đối tượng hiện tại |
| Chuyển đến đối tượng đang được focus | NVDA+numpadMinus | NVDA+backspace | none | Chuyển đến đối tượng đang được chọn (focus) và đặt con trỏ duyệt text vào vị trí con trỏ nháy |
| Kích hoạt đối tượng hiện tại | NVDA+numpadEnter | NVDA+enter | double tap | Kích hoạt đối tượng đang duyệt (giống như kích hoạt đối tượng đang được focus) |
| Chuyển focus hoặc con trỏ nháy vào vị trí duyệt text trên đối tượng đang duyệt | NVDA+shift+numpadMinus | NVDA+shift+backspace | none | Ấn 1 lần để chuyển focus đến đối tượng đang duyệt, ấn 2 lần để chuyển con trỏ nháy vào vị trí duyệt text của đối tượng đó |
| Thông báo chiều của đối tượng đang duyệt | NVDA+numpadDelete | NVDA+delete | none | Thông báo vị trí của đối tượng đang duyệt, bao gồm cả vị trí so với mép trái, mép trên của màn hình và chiều rộng, chiều cao của đối tượng đó |
%kc:endInclude

Chú ý: Bạn cần tắt phím NumLock để sử dụng các phím số bên bàn phím số trong bàn phím Desktop

++ Reviewing Text ++[ReviewingText]
NVDA allows you to read the contents of the [screen #ScreenReview], current [document #DocumentReview] or current [object #ObjectReview] by character, word or line.
This is mostly useful in places (including Windows command consoles) where there is no [system caret #SystemCaret].
For example, you might use it to review the text of a long information message in a dialog.

When moving the review cursor, the System caret does not follow along, so you can review text without losing your editing position.
However, by default, when the System caret moves, the review cursor follows along.
This can be toggled on and off.

Note that braille follows the [focus #SystemFocus] and [caret #SystemCaret] by default, rather than object navigation and text review.
If you want it to follow object navigation and text review instead, you need to [configure braille to be tethered to #BrailleTether] review.

The following commands are available for reviewing text:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Touch | Description |
| Move to top line in review | shift+numpad7 | NVDA+control+home | none | Moves the review cursor to the top line of the text |
| Move to previous line in review | numpad7 | NVDA+upArrow | flick up (text mode) | Moves the review cursor to the previous line of text |
| Report current line in review | numpad8 | NVDA+shift+. | none | Announces the current line of text where the review cursor is positioned. Pressing twice spells the line. Pressing three times spells the line using character descriptions. |
| Move to next line in review | numpad9 | NVDA+downArrow | flick down (text mode) | Move the review cursor to the next line of text |
| Move to bottom line in review | shift+numpad9 | NVDA+control+end | none | Moves the review cursor to the bottom line of text |
| Move to previous word in review | numpad4 | NVDA+control+leftArrow | 2-finger flick left (text mode) | Moves the review cursor to the previous word in the text |
| Report current word in review | numpad5 | NVDA+control+. | none | Announces the current word in the text where the review cursor is positioned. Pressing twice spells the word. Pressing three times spells the word using character descriptions. |
| Move to next word in review | numpad6 | NVDA+control+rightArrow | 2-finger flick right (text mode) | Move the review cursor to the next word in the text |
| Move to start of line in review | shift+numpad1 | NVDA+home | none | Moves the review cursor to the start of the current line in the text |
| Move to previous character in review | numpad1 | NVDA+leftArrow | flick left (text mode) | Moves the review cursor to the previous character on the current line in the text |
| Report current character in review | numpad2 | NVDA+. | none | Announces the current character on the line of text where the review cursor is positioned. Pressing twice reports a description or example of that character. Pressing three times reports the numeric value of the character in decimal and hexadecimal. |
| Move to next character in review | numpad3 | NVDA+rightArrow | flick right (text mode) | Move the review cursor to the next character on the current line of text |
| Move to end of line in review | shift+numpad3 | NVDA+end | none | Moves the review cursor to the end of the current line of text |
| Say all with review | numpadPlus | NVDA+shift+a | 3-finger flick down (text mode) | Reads from the current position of the review cursor, moving it as it goes |
| Copy from review cursor | NVDA+f9 | NVDA+f9 | none | starts copying text from the current position of the review cursor. The actual copy is not performed until you tell NVDA where to copy to |
| Copy to review cursor | NVDA+f10 | NVDA+f10 | none | Copies from the position of the review cursor currently set with Copy from review cursor, to the review cursor's current position. After pressing this key, the text will be copied to the Windows clipboard |
| Report text formatting | NVDA+f | NVDA+f | none | Reports the formatting of the text where the review cursor is currently situated |
%kc:endInclude

Note: numpad keys require numlock key to be turned off to work properly.

A good way to remember the basic text review commands  when using the Desktop layout  is to think of them as being in a grid of three by three, with top to bottom being line, word and character and left to right being previous, current and next.
The layout is illustrated as follows:
| Previous line | Current line | Next line |
| Previous word | Current word | Next word |
| Previous character | Current character | Next character |

++ Review Modes ++[ReviewModes]
NVDA's [text review commands #ReviewingText] can review content within the current navigator object, current document or screen, depending on the review mode selected.
Review modes are a replacement for the older Flat Review concept found in NVDA.

The following commands switch between review modes:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Touch | Description |
| switch to next review mode | NVDA+numpad7 | NVDA+pageUp | 2-finger flick up | switches to the next available review mode |
| switch to previous review mode | NVDA+numpad1 | NVDA+pageDown | 2-finger flick down | switches to the previous available review mode |
%kc:endInclude

+++ Object Review +++[ObjectReview]
While in object review mode, you are able to only review the content of the current [navigator object #ObjectNavigation].
For objects such as editable text fields or other basic text controls, this will generally be the text content.
For other objects, this may be the name and/or value.

+++ Document Review +++[DocumentReview]
When the [navigator object #ObjectNavigation] is within a browse mode document (e.g. web page) or other complex document (e.g. a Lotus Symphony document), it is possible to switch to the document review mode.
The document review mode allows you to review the text of the entire document.

When switching from object review to document review, the review cursor is placed in the document at the position of the navigator object.
When moving around the document with review commands, the navigator object is automatically updated to the object found at the current review cursor position.

Note that NVDA will switch to document review from object review automatically when moving around browse mode documents.

+++ Screen Review +++[ScreenReview]
The screen review mode allows you to review the text of the screen as it appears visually within the current application.
This is similar to the screen review or mouse cursor functionality in many other Windows screen readers.

When switching to screen review mode, the review cursor is placed at the screen position of the current [navigator object #ObjectNavigation].
When moving around the screen with review commands, the navigator object is automatically updated to the object found at the screen position of the review cursor.

Note that in some newer applications, NVDA may not see some or all text displayed on the screen due to the use of newer screen drawing technologies which are impossible to support at this time.

++ Navigating with the Mouse ++
When you move the Mouse, NVDA by default reports the text that is directly under the mouse pointer as the pointer moves over it.
Where supported, NVDA will read the surrounding paragraph of text, though some controls may only read by line.

NVDA can be configured to also announce the type of [object #Objects] under the mouse as it moves (e.g. list, button, etc.).
This may be useful for totally blind users, as sometimes, the text isn't enough.

NVDA provides a way for users to understand where the mouse is located relative to the dimensions of the screen by playing the current mouse coordinates as audio beeps.
The higher the mouse is on the screen, the higher the pitch of the beeps.
The further left or right the mouse is located on the screen, the further left or right the sound will be played (assuming the user has stereo speakers or headphones).

These extra mouse features are not turned on by default in NVDA.
If you wish to take advantage of them, you can configure them from the [Mouse settings #MouseSettings] dialog, found in the NVDA Preferences menu.

Although a physical mouse or trackpad should be used to navigate with the mouse, NVDA has a few key commands related to the mouse:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Description |
| Left mouse button click | numpadDivide | NVDA+[ | clicks the left mouse button once. The common double click can be performed by pressing this key twice in quick succession |
| Left mouse button lock | shift+numpadDivide | NVDA+control+[ | Locks the left mouse button down. Press again to release it. To drag the mouse, press this key to lock the left button down and then move the mouse either physically or use one of the other mouse routing commands |
| Right mouse click | numpadMultiply | NVDA+] | Clicks the right mouse button once. |
| Right mouse button lock | shift+numpadMultiply | NVDA+control+] | Locks the right mouse button down. Press again to release it. To drag the mouse, press this key to lock the right button down and then move the mouse either physically or use one of the other mouse routing commands |
| Move mouse to current navigator object | NVDA+numpadDivide | NVDA+shift+m | Moves the mouse to the location of the current navigator object and review cursor |
| Navigate to the object under the mouse | NVDA+numpadMultiply | NVDA+shift+n | Set the navigator object to the object located at the position of the mouse |
%kc:endInclude

+ Browse Mode +
Complex read-only documents such as web pages are browsed in NVDA using browse mode.
This includes documents in Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Adobe Reader and Adobe Flash.

In browse mode, the content of the document is made available in a flat representation that can be navigated with the cursor keys as if it were a normal text document.
All of NVDA's [system caret #SystemCaret] key commands will work in this mode; e.g. say all, report formatting, table navigation commands, etc.
Information such as whether text is a link, heading, etc. is reported along with the text as you move.

Sometimes, you will need to interact directly with controls in these documents.
For example, you will need to do this for editable text fields and lists so that you can type characters and use the cursor keys to work with the control.
You do this by switching to focus mode, where almost all keys are passed to the control.
When in Browse mode, by default, NVDA will automatically switch to focus mode if you tab to or click on a particular control that requires it.
Conversely, tabbing to or clicking on a control that does not require focus mode will switch back to browse mode.
You can also press enter or space to switch to focus mode on controls that require it.
Pressing escape will switch back to browse mode.
In addition, you can manually force focus mode, after which it will remain in effect until you choose to disable it.

%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Toggle browse/focus modes | NVDA+space | Toggles between focus mode and browse mode |
| Exit focus mode | escape | switches back to browse mode if focus mode was previously switched to automatically |
| Refresh browse mode document | NVDA+f5 | Reloads the current document content (useful if certain content seems to be missing from the document) |
| Find | NVDA+control+f | Pops up a dialog in which you can type some text to find in the current document |
| Find next | NVDA+f3 | Finds the next occurrence of the text in the document that you previously searched for |
| Find previous | NVDA+shift+f3 | Finds the previous occurrence of the text in the document you previously searched for |
| open long description | NVDA+d | Opens a new window containing a long description for the element you are on if it has one. | 
%kc:endInclude


++ Single Letter Navigation ++
While in browse mode, For quicker navigation, NVDA also provides single character keys to jump to certain fields in the document.

%kc:beginInclude
The following keys by themselves jump to the next available element, while adding the shift key causes them to jump to the previous element:
- h: heading
- l: list
- i: list item
- t: table
- k: link
- n: nonLinked text
- f: form field
- u: unvisited link
- v: visited link
- e: edit field
- b: button
- x: checkbox
- c: combo box
- r: radio button
- q: block quote
- s: separator
- m: frame
- g: graphic
- d: landmark
- o: embedded object
- 1 to 6: headings at levels 1 to 6 respectively
-
To move to the beginning or end of containing elements such as lists and tables:
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Move to start of container | shift+comma | Moves to the start of the container (list, table, etc.) where the caret is positioned |
| Move past end of container | comma | Moves past the end of the container (list, table, etc.) where the caret is positioned |
%kc:endInclude

++ The Elements List ++
The elements list provides access to a list of either links, headings or landmarks in the document.
Radio buttons allow you to switch between these three types of information.
An edit field is also provided in the dialog which allows you to filter the list to help you search for a particular item on the page.
Once you have chosen an item, you can use the provided buttons in the dialog to move to or activate that item.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Browse mode elements list | NVDA+f7 | Brings up the Elements list which contains links, headings and landmarks from the current document |
%kc:endInclude

++ Embedded Objects ++
Pages can include rich content using technologies such as Adobe Flash and Sun Java, as well as applications and dialogs.
Where these are encountered in browse mode, NVDA will report "embedded object", "application" or "dialog", respectively.
You can press enter on these objects to interact with them.
If it is accessible, you can then tab around it and interact with it like any other application.
A key command is provided to return to the original page containing the embedded object:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Move to containing browse mode document | NVDA+control+space | Moves the focus out of the current embedded object and into the document that contains it |
%kc:endInclude

+ Application Specific NVDA Commands +
NVDA provides its own extra commands for some applications to make certain tasks easier or to provide access to functionality which is not otherwise accessible to screen reader users.

++ Microsoft Excel ++
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Set column headers | NVDA+shift+c | Pressing this once tells NVDA this is the row that contains column headers, which should be automatically announced when moving between columns below this row. Pressing twice will clear the setting. | 
| Set row headers | NVDA+shift+r | Pressing this once tells NVDA this is the column that contains row headers, which should be automatically announced when moving between rows after  this column. Pressing twice will clear the setting. | 
%kc:endInclude

++ Microsoft PowerPoint ++
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Toggle speaker notes reading | control+shift+s | When in a running slide show, this command will toggle between the speaker notes for the slide and the content for the slide. This only affects what NVDA reads, not what is displayed on screen. | 
%kc:endInclude

++ foobar2000 ++
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Report remaining time | control+shift+r | Reports the remaining time of the currently playing track, if any. |
%kc:endInclude

Note: The report remaining time shortcut works only with the default formatting string for foobar's status line.

++ Miranda IM ++
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Report recent message | NVDA+control+1-4 | Reports one of the recent messages, depending on the number pressed; e.g. NVDA+control+2 reads the second most recent message. |
%kc:endInclude

++ Poedit ++
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Report Comments Window | control+shift+c | Reports any comments in the comments window. |
| Report notes for translators | control+shift+a | Reports any notes for translators. |
%kc:endInclude

+ Configuring NVDA +

++ Preferences ++
%kc:settingsSection: || Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Description |
Most NVDA settings can be changed using dialog boxes accessed through the Preferences sub-menu of the NVDA menu.
In all NVDA settings dialog boxes, press the OK button to accept any changes you have made.
To cancel any changes, press the Cancel button or the escape key.
Some settings can also be changed using shortcut keys, which are listed where relevant in the sections below.

+++ General Settings (NVDA+control+g) +++
The General settings dialog box is found in the Preferences menu.
It contains the following options:

==== Language ====
A combo box which allows you to select the language that NVDA's user interface and messages should be shown in.
There are many languages, however the default option is "User Default, Windows".
This option tells NVDA to use the language that Windows is currently set to.

Please note that NVDA must be restarted when changing the language.
NVDA will ask you if you wish to restart if you do change the selection.
Press OK, and NVDA will restart.

==== Save Configuration on Exit ====
This option is a checkbox that, when checked, tells NVDA to automatically save the current configuration when you exit NVDA.

==== Warn before exiting NVDA ====
This option is a checkbox that allows you to choose whether or not a dialog appears when you exit NVDA that asks whether or not you would like to exit.
When checked, a dialog will appear when you attempt to exit NVDA asking whether or not you want to exit.

==== Logging level ====
This is a combo box that permits you to choose how much NVDA will log as it's running.
Generally users should not need to touch this as not too much is logged.
However if you are wanting to provide information in a bug report, then it may be a useful option.

==== Automatically start NVDA after I log on to Windows ====
If this option is enabled, NVDA will start automatically as soon as you log on to Windows.
This option is only available for installed copies of NVDA.

==== Use NVDA on the windows Logon screen (requires administrative privileges) ====
If you log on to Windows by providing a user name and password, then enabling this option will make NVDA start automatically at the logon screen when Windows starts.
This option is only available for installed copies of NVDA.

==== Use currently saved settings on the logon and other secure screens ====
Pressing this button copies your currently saved NVDA user configuration to NVDA's system configuration directory, so that NVDA will use it when running on the logon, User Account Control (UAC) and other secure Windows screens.
To make sure that all your settings are transfered, make sure to firstly save your configuration with control+NVDA+c or save configuration in the NVDA menu.
This option is only available for installed copies of NVDA.

==== Automatically check for updates to NVDA ====
If this is enabled, NVDA will automatically check for updated versions of NVDA and inform you when an update is available.
You can also manually check for updates by selecting Check for updates under Help in the NVDA menu.

+++ Synthesizer Selection (NVDA+control+s) +++
The Synthesizer dialog, which is found under "Synthesizer..." in the Preferences menu, allows you to select which Synthesizer NVDA should use to speak with.
Once you have selected your synthesizer of choice, you can press Ok and NVDA will load the selected Synthesizer.
If there is an error loading the synthesizer, NVDA will notify you with a message, and continue using the previous synthesizer.

==== Synthesizer ====
This option allows you to choose the synthesizer you wish NVDA to use for speech output.

For a list of the Synthesizers that NVDA supports, please see the [Supported Speech Synthesizers #SupportedSpeechSynths] section.

One special item that will always appear in this list is "No speech", which allows you to use NVDA with no speech output what so ever.
This may be useful for someone who wishes to only use NVDA with Braille, or perhaps to sighted developers who only wish to use the Speech Viewer.

==== Output device ====
This option allows you to choose the sound card that NVDA should instruct the selected synthesizer to speak through.

+++ Voice Settings (NVDA+control+v) +++[VoiceSettings]
The Voice Settings dialog, found in the Preferences menu, contains options that let you change the sound of the speech.
For a quicker alternative way of controlling speech parameters from anywhere, please see the [Synth Settings Ring #SynthSettingsRing] section.

The Voice Settings dialog box contains the following options:

==== Voice ====
The first option that you land on in this dialog is a combo box listing all the voices of the current synthesizer that you have installed.
You can use the arrow keys to listen to all the various choices.
Left and Up arrow take you up in the list, while right and down arrow move you down in the list.

==== Variant ====
If you are using the Espeak synthesizer that is packaged with NVDA, this is a combo box that lets you select the Variant the synthesizer should speak with.
ESpeak's Variants are rather like voices, as they provide slightly different attributes to the eSpeak voice.
Some variants will sound like a male, some like a female, and some even like a frog.

==== Rate ====
This option allows you to change the rate of your voice.
This is a slider that goes from 0 to 100, (0 being the slowest, 100 being the fastest).

==== Pitch ====
This option allows you to change the pitch of the current voice.
It is a slider which goes from 0 to 100, (0 being the lowest pitch and 100 being the highest).

==== Volume ====
This option is a slider which goes from 0 to 100, (0 being the lowest volume and 100 being the highest).

==== Inflection ====
This option is a slider that lets you choose how much inflection (rise and fall in pitch) the synthesizer should use to speak with. (The only synthesizer that provides this option at the present time is eSpeak).

==== Automatic Language switching ====
This checkbox allows you to toggle whether or not NVDA should switch speech synthesizer languages on the fly, if language markup is available in the text being read.
This option is enabled by default.
Currently only the eSpeak synthesizer supports automatic language switching.

==== Automatic Dialect switching ====
If automatic language switching is turned on, this checkbox allows you to toggle whether or not dialect changes should be made, rather than just actual language changes. E.g. If reading in an English U.S. voice but a document states some text is in English U.K. then if this feature is enabled the synthesizer will switch accents.
This option is disabled by default.

%kc:setting
==== Punctuation/Symbol Level ====
Key: NVDA+p

This allows you to choose the amount of punctuation and other symbols that should be spoken as words.
For example, when set to all, all symbols will be spoken as words.
This option applies to all synthesizers, not just the currently active synthesizer.

==== Capital pitch change percentage ====
This edit field allows you to type the amount that the pitch of the voice will change when speaking a capital letter.
This value is a percentage, where a negative value lowers the pitch and a positive value raises it.
For no pitch change you would use 0.

==== Say "cap" before capitals ====
This setting is a checkbox that, when checked, tells NVDA to say the word "cap" before any capital letter when spoken as an individual character such as when spelling.
Usually, NVDA raises the pitch slightly for any capital letter, but some synthesizers may not support this well, so perhaps this option may be of use.

==== Beep for capitals ====
If this checkbox is checked, NVDA will make a small beep each time it encounters a capitalized character by itself.
Like the "say cap for capitals" checkbox, this is useful for Synthesizers that can't change their pitch for capital letters.

==== Use spelling functionality if supported ====[VoiceSpellingFunctionality]
Some words consist of only one character, but the pronunciation is different depending on whether the character is being spoken as an individual character (such as when spelling) or a word.
For example, in English, "a" is both a letter and a word.
This option allows the synthesizer to differentiate between these two cases if the synthesizer supports this.
Most synthesizers do support it.

This option should generally be enabled.
However, some Microsoft Speech API synthesizers do not implement this correctly and behave strangely when it is enabled.
If you are having problems with the pronunciation of individual characters, try disabling this option.

+++ Synth settings ring +++[SynthSettingsRing]
If you wish to quickly change speech settings without going to the Voice settings dialog, there are some NVDA key commands that allow you to move through the most common speech settings from anywhere while running NVDA:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Description |
| Move to next synth setting | NVDA+control+rightArrow | NVDA+shift+control+rightArrow | Moves to the next available speech setting after the current, wrapping around to the first setting again after the last |
| Move to previous synth setting | NVDA+control+leftArrow | NVDA+shift+control+leftArrow | Moves to the next available speech setting before the current, wrapping around to the last setting after the first |
| Increment current synth setting | NVDA+control+upArrow | NVDA+shift+control+upArrow | increases the current speech setting you are on. E.g. increases the rate, chooses the next voice, increases the volume |
| Decrement current synth setting | NVDA+control+downArrow | NVDA+shift+control+downArrow | decreases the current speech setting you are on. E.g. decreases the rate, chooses the previous voice, decreases the volume |
%kc:endInclude

+++ Braille Settings +++
The braille settings dialog box can be invoked by going to the preferences menu and then to the braille settings option.

==== Braille Display ====
The first option you will come upon in the braille settings dialog is a combo box that says "braille display".
You will be presented with several options depending on what braille display drivers are available on your system.
Move between these options with the arrow keys.

No braille means that you are not using braille.

Please see the [Supported Braille Displays #SupportedBrailleDisplays] section for more information about supported braille displays.

==== Port ====
This option, if available, allows you to choose what port or type of connection will be used to communicate with the braille display you have selected.
It is a combo box containing the possible choices for your braille display.

By default, NVDA employs automatic port detection, which means the connection with the braille device will be established automatically by scanning for available USB and bluetooth devices on your system.
However, for some braille displays, you may be able to explicitly choose what port should be used.
Common options are "Automatic" (which tells NVDA to employ the default automatic port selection procedure), "USB", "Bluetooth" and legacy serial communication ports if your braille display supports this type of communication.

This option won't be available if your braille display only supports automatic port detection.

You may consult the documentation for your braille display in the section [Supported Braille Displays #SupportedBrailleDisplays] to check for more details on the supported types of communication and available ports.

==== Output Table ====
The next option you will come to in this dialog is the braille output table combo box.
In this combo box, you will find braille tables for different languages, braille standards and grades.
The chosen table will be used to translate text into braille to be presented on your braille display.
You can move from braille table to braille table in the list by using the arrow keys.

==== Input Table ====
Complementary to the previous option, the next setting you will find is the braille input table combo box.
The chosen table will be used to translate braille entered on your braille display's Perkins-style keyboard into text.
NVDA currently only supports computer braille input, so only 8 dot computer braille tables will be shown.
You can move from braille table to braille table in the list by using the arrow keys.

Note that this option is only useful if your braille display has a Perkins-style keyboard and this feature is supported by the braille display driver.
If input is not supported on a display which does have a braille keyboard, this will be noted in the [Supported Braille Displays #SupportedBrailleDisplays] section.

==== Expand to computer braille for the word at the cursor ====
This option allows the word that is under the cursor to be displayed in non-contracted computer braille.

==== Cursor Blink Rate ====
This option is a numerical field that allows you to change the blink rate of the cursor in milliseconds.

==== Message Timeout (sec) ====
This option is a numerical field that controls how long NVDA messages are displayed on the braille display.
Specifying 0 disables displaying of these messages completely.

%kc:setting
==== Braille Tethered to ====[BrailleTether]
Key: NVDA+control+t

This option allows you to choose whether the braille display will follow the system focus, or whether it follows the navigator object / review cursor.

==== Read by Paragraph ====
If enabled, braille will be displayed by paragraphs instead of lines.
Also, the next and previous line commands will move by paragraph accordingly.
This means that you do not have to scroll the display at the end of each line even where more text would fit on the display.
This may allow for more fluent reading of large amounts of text.
It is disabled by default.

+++ Keyboard Settings (NVDA+control+k) +++
This dialog box is found in the Preferences menu, under "Keyboard settings...".
It contains the following options:

==== Keyboard layout ====
This combo box lets you choose what type of keyboard layout NVDA should use. Currently the two that come with NVDA are Desktop and Laptop.

==== Use capslock as an NVDA modifier key ====
If this checkbox is checked, capslock can be used as an NVDA modifier key.

==== Use extended insert as an NVDA modifier key ====
If this checkbox is checked, the extended insert key (usually found above the arrow keys, near home and end) can be used as an NVDA modifier key.

==== Use numpad insert as an NVDA modifier key ====
If this checkbox is checked, the insert key on the number pad can be used as an NVDA modifier key.

If no key is chosen as the NVDA key it may be impossible to access certain NVDA commands.
Therefore, The Keyboard Settings dialog will display an error message if all keys are unselected when pressing Ok.
After dismissing the error message, you must select at least one before being able to press Ok to dismiss the dialog properly.

%kc:setting
==== Speak Typed Characters ====
Key: NVDA+2

When enabled, NVDA will announce all characters you type on the keyboard.

%kc:setting
==== Speak Typed Words ====
Key: NVDA+3

When enabled, NVDA will announce all words you type on the keyboard.

==== Speech interrupt for typed characters ====
If on, this option will cause speech to be interrupted each time a character is typed. This is on by default.

==== Speech interrupt for Enter key ====
If on, this option will cause speech to be interrupted each time the Enter key is pressed. This is on by default.

==== Allow skim reading in Say All ====
If on, certain navigation commands (such as quick navigation in browse mode or moving by line or paragraph) do not stop Say All, rather Say All jumps to the new position and continues reading.
 
==== Beep if Typing Lowercase Letters when Caps Lock is On ====
When enabled, a warning beep will be heard if a letter is typed with the shift key while caps lock is on.
Generally, typing shifted letters with caps lock is unintentional and is usually due to not realising that caps lock is enabled.
Therefore, it can be quite helpful to be warned about this.

%kc:setting
==== Speak Command Keys ====
Key: NVDA+4

When enabled, NVDA will announce all non-character keys you type on the keyboard. This includes key combinations such as control plus another letter.

+++ Mouse Settings (NVDA+control+m) +++[MouseSettings]
The Mouse Settings dialog is found in the Preferences Menu, under "Mouse settings...".
It contains the following options:

==== Report Mouse Shape Changes ====
A checkbox, that when checked means that NVDA will announce the shape of the mouse pointer each time it changes.
The mouse pointer in Windows changes shape to convey certain information such as when something is editable, or when something is loading etc.

%kc:setting
==== Enable mouse tracking ====
Key: NVDA+m

When enabled, NVDA will announce the text currently under the mouse pointer, as you move it around the screen. This allows you to find things on the screen, by physically moving the mouse, rather than trying to find them through object navigation.

==== Text unit resolution ====
If NVDA is set to announce the text under the mouse as you move it, this option allows you to choose exactly how much text will be spoken.
The options are character, word, line and paragraph.

==== Report role when mouse enters object ====
If this checkbox is checked, NVDA will announce the role (type) of object as the mouse moves in side it.

==== Play audio coordinates when mouse moves ====
Checking this checkbox makes NVDA play beeps as the mouse moves, so that the user can work out where the mouse is in regards to the dimensions of the screen.

==== Brightness controls audio coordinates volume ====
If the "play audio coordinates when mouse moves" checkbox is checked, then checking this checkbox means that the volume of the audio coordinates beeps is controled by how bright the screen is under the mouse.
This setting is unchecked by default.

+++ Review Cursor Settings +++
Found in the Preferences menu under "Review Cursor...".
This dialog contains the following options:

%kc:setting
==== Follow System Focus ====
Key: NVDA+7

When enabled, The review cursor will always be placed in the same object as the current system focus whenever the focus changes.

%kc:setting
==== Follow System Caret ====
Key: NVDA+6

When enabled, the review cursor will automatically be moved to the position of the System caret each time it moves.

==== Follow mouse ====
When enabled, the review cursor will follow the mouse as it moves.

==== Simple Review mode ====
When enabled, NVDA will filter the hierarchy of objects that can be navigated to exclude objects that aren't of interest to the user; e.g. invisible objects and objects used only for layout purposes.

+++ Object Presentation Settings (NVDA+control+o) +++
Found in the Preferences menu under "Object Presentation...".
This dialog box contains the following options:

==== Report Tool Tips ====
A checkbox that when checked tells NVDA to report tool tips as they appear.
Many Windows and controls show a small message (or tool tip) when you move the mouse pointer over them, or sometimes when you move the focus to them.

==== Report Help Balloons ====
This checkbox when checked tells NVDA to report help balloons as they appear.
Help Balloons are like tool tips, but are usually larger in size, and are associated with system events such as a network cable being unplugged, or perhaps to alert you about Windows security issues.

==== Report Object Shortcut Keys ====
When this checkbox is checked, NVDA will include the shortcut key that is associated with a certain object or control when it is reported.
For example the File menu on a menu bar may have a shortcut key of alt+f.

==== Report object position information ====
This option lets you choose whether you wish to have an object's position (e.g. 1 of 4) reported when moving to the object with the focus or object navigation.

==== Guess Object Position Information when unavailable ====
If reporting of object position information is turned on, this option allows NVDA to guess object position information when it is otherwise unavailable for a particular control.

When on, NVDA will report position information for more controls such as menus and toolbars, however this information may be slightly inaccurate.

==== Report Object descriptions ====
Uncheck this checkbox if you don't wish to have the description reported along with objects.

%kc:setting
==== Progress bar output ====
Key: NVDA+u

This option controls how NVDA reports progress bar updates to you.

It has the following options:
- Off: Progress bars will not be reported as they change.
- Speak: This option tells NVDA to speak the progress bar in percentages. Each time the progress bar changes, NVDA will speak the new value.
- Beep: This tells NVDA to beep each time the progress bar changes. The higher the beep, the closer the progress bar is to completion.
- Beep and speak: This option tells NVDA to both beep and speak when a progress bar updates.
-

==== Report background progress bars ====
This is an option that, when checked, tells NVDA to keep reporting a progress bar, even if it is not physically in the foreground.
If you minimize or switch away from a window that contains a progress bar, NVDA will keep track of it, allowing you to do other things while NVDA tracks the progress bar.

%kc:setting
==== Report dynamic content changes ====
Key: NVDA+5

Toggles the announcement of new content in particular objects such as terminals and the history control in chat programs.

+++ Input Composition Settings +++
The Input Composition Settings dialog can be found under the Preferences menu.
This dialog allows you to control how NVDA reports the input of Asian characters, such as with IME or Text Service input methods.
Note that due to the fact that input methods vary greatly by available features and by how they convey information, it will most likely be necessary to configure these options differently for each input method to get the most efficient typing experience.
 
==== Automatically report all available candidates ====
This option, which is on by default,  allows you to choose whether or not all visible candidates should be reported automatically when a candidate list appears or its page is changed.
Having this option on for pictographic input methods such as chinese New ChangJie or Boshiami is useful, as you can automatically hear all symbols and their numbers and you can choose one right away.
However, for phonetic input methods such as chinese New Phonetic, it may be more useful to turn this option off, as all the symbols will sound the same and you will have to use the arrow keys to navigate the list items individually to gain more information  from the character descriptions for each candidate.

==== Announce Selected Candidate ====
This option, which is on by default, allows you to choose whether NVDA should announce the selected candidate when a candidate list appears or when the selection is changed.
For input methods where the selection can be changed with the arrow keys  (such as Chinese New Phonetic) this is necessary, but for some input methods it may be more efficient typing with this option turned off.
Note that even with this option off, the review cursor will still be placed on the selected candidate allowing you to use object navigation / review to manually read this or other candidates.

==== Always include short character descriptions for candidates ====
This option, which is on by default, allows you to choose whether or not NVDA should provide a short description for each character in a candidate, either when its selected or when its automatically read when the candidate list appears.
Note that for locales such as Chinese, the announcement of extra character descriptions for the selected candidate is not affected by this option.
This option may be useful for Korean and japanese input methods.
 
==== Report changes to the reading string ====
Some input methods such as Chinese New Phonetic and New ChangJie have a reading string (sometimes known as a precomposition string).
You can choose whether or not NVDA should announce new characters being typed into this reading string with this option.
This option is on by default.
Note some older input methods such as Chinese ChangJie may not use the reading string to hold precomposition characters, but instead use the composition string directly. Please see the next option for configuring reporting of the composition string.

==== Report changes to the composition string ====
After reading or precomposition data has been combined into a valid pictographic symbol, most input methods place this symbol into a composition string for temporary storage along with other combined symbols before they are finally inserted into the document.
This option allows you to choose whether or not NVDA should report new symbols as they appear  in the composition string.
This option is on by default.

+++ Browse Mode Settings (NVDA+control+b) +++
The Browse Mode settings dialog can be found in the Preferences menu, under "Browse mode...".

The dialog contains the following options:

==== Maximum Number of Characters on One Line ====
This field sets the maximum length of a line in browse mode (in characters).

==== Maximum Lines Per Page ====
This field sets the amount of lines you will move by when pressing page up or page down while in browse mode.

%kc:setting
==== Use screen layout ====
Key: NVDA+v

This option allows you to specify whether content in browse mode should place content such as links and other fields on their own line, or if it should keep them in the flow of text as it is visually shown. If the option is enabled then things will stay as they are visually shown, but if it is disabled then fields will be placed on their own line.

==== Automatic Say All on page load ====
This checkbox toggles the automatic reading of a page after it loads in browse mode.
This option is enabled by default.

==== Include layout tables ====
This option affects how NVDA handles tables used purely for layout purposes.
When on, NVDA will treat these as normal tables, reporting them based on [Document Formatting Settings #DocumentFormattingSettings] and locating them with quick navigation commands.
When off, they will not be reported nor found with quick navigation.
However, the content of the tables will still be included as normal text.
This option is turned off by default.

==== Configuring reporting of fields such as links and headings ====
Please see the options in the [Document Formatting Settings dialog #DocumentFormattingSettings] to configure the fields that are reported when navigating, such as links, headings and tables.

==== Automatic focus mode for focus changes ====
This option allows focus mode to be invoked if focus changes.
For example, when on a web page, if you press tab and you land on a form, if this option is checked, focus mode will automatically be invoked.

==== Automatic focus mode for caret movement ====
This option, when checked, allows NVDA to enter and leave focus mode when using arrow keys.
For example, if arrowing down a webpage and you land on an edit box, NVDA will automatically bring you into focus mode. If you arrow out of the edit box, NVDA will put you back in browse mode.

==== Audio indication of Focus and Browse modes ====
If this option is enabled, NVDA will play special sounds when it switches between browse mode and focus mode, rather than speaking the change.

+++ Document Formatting Settings (NVDA+control+d) +++[DocumentFormattingSettings]
This dialog box is found in the Preferences menu, under "Document Formatting...".

Most of the checkboxes in this dialog are for configuring what type of formatting you wish to have reported as you move the cursor around documents.
For example, if you check the report font name checkbox, each time you arrow onto text with a different font, the name of the font will be announced.

You can configure reporting of:
- Font name
- Font size
- Font attributes
- Text alignment
- Colors
- editor revisions
- Text style
- Spelling errors
- Page numbers
- Line numbers
- Line indentation
- Tables
- Table row/column headers
- Table cell coordinates
- Links
- Headings
- Lists
- Block quotes
- Landmarks
- Frames
-

==== Announce formatting changes after the cursor ====
If enabled, this setting tells NVDA to try and detect all the formatting changes on a line as it speaks it, even if doing this may slow down NVDA's performance.

By default, NVDA will detect the formatting at the position of the System caret / Review Cursor, and in some instances may detect formatting on the rest of the line, only if it is not going to cause a performance decrease.

Enable this option while proof reading documents in applications such as Microsoft Word, where formatting is important.

+++ Speech dictionaries +++
The speech dictionaries menu (found in the Preferences menu) contains dialogs that allow you to manage the way NVDA pronounces particular words or phrases.
There are currently three different types of speech dictionaries.
They are:
- Default: rules in this dictionary affect all speech in NVDA.
- Voice: rules in this dictionary affect speech for the synthesizer voice currently being used.
- Temporary: rules in this dictionary affect all speech in NVDA, but only for the current session. These rules are temporary and will be lost if NVDA is restarted.
-

All dictionary dialogs contain a list of rules which will be used for processing the speech.
The dialog also contains Add, Edit and remove buttons.

To add a new rule to the dictionary, press the Add button, and fill in the fields in the dialog box that appears and then press Ok.
You will then see your new rule in the list of rules.
However to make sure your rule is actually saved, make sure to press Ok to exit the dictionary dialog all together once you have finished adding/editing rules.

The rules for NVDA's speech dictionaries allow you to change one string of characters into another.
A simple example would be that you want to have NVDA say the word frog each time it is supposed to say the word bird.
In the Add rule dialog, the easiest way to do this is to type the word bird in the Pattern field, and the word frog in the Replacement field.
You may also want to type a description of the rule in the Comment field (something like: changes bird to frog).

NVDA's speech dictionaries however are much more powerful than simple word replacement.
The Add rule dialog also contains a checkbox to say whether or not you want the rule to be case sensitive (meaning that NVDA should care whether the characters are uppercase or lowercase.
NVDA ignores case by default).
Another checkbox allows you to state whether your pattern is a "Regular expression".
A regular expression is a pattern containing special symbols that allow you to match on more than one character at a time, or match on just numbers, or just letters, as a few examples.
Regular expressions are not covered in this user guide, but there are many tutorials on the web which can provide you with more information.

+++ Punctuation/symbol pronunciation +++[SymbolPronunciation]
This dialog allows you to change the way punctuation and other symbols are pronounced, as well as the symbol level at which they are spoken.

To change a symbol, first select it in the Symbols list.
The Replacement field allows you to change the text that should be spoken in place of this symbol.
Using the Level field, you can adjust the lowest symbol level at which this symbol should be spoken.

When you are finished, press the OK button to save your changes or the Cancel button to discard them.

+++ Input Gestures +++
In this dialog, you can customize the input gestures (keys on the keyboard, buttons on a braille display, etc.) for NVDA commands.

Only commands that are applicable immediately before the dialog is opened are shown.
For example, if you want to customize commands related to browse mode, you should open the Input Gestures dialog while you are in browse mode.

The tree in this dialog lists all of the applicable NVDA commands grouped by category.
Any gestures associated with a command are listed beneath the command.

To add an input gesture to a command, select the command and press the Add button.
Then, perform the input gesture you wish to associate; e.g. press a key on the keyboard or a button on a braille display.
Often, a gesture can be interpreted in more than one way.
For example, if you pressed a key on the keyboard, you may wish it to be specific to the current keyboard layout (e.g. desktop or laptop) or you may wish it to apply for all layouts.
In this case, a menu will appear allowing you to select the desired option.

To remove a gesture from a command, select the gesture and press the Remove button.

When you are finished making changes, press the OK button to save them or the Cancel button to discard them.

++ Saving and Reloading the configuration ++
By default NVDA will automatically save your settings on exit.
Note, however, that this option can be changed under the general options in the preferences menu.
To save the settings manually at any time, choose the Save configuration item in the NVDA menu.

If you ever make a mistake with your settings and need to revert back to the saved settings, choose the "revert to saved configuration" item in the NVDA menu.
You can also reset your settings to their original factory defaults by choosing Reset Configuration To Factory Defaults, which is also found in the NVDA menu.

The following NVDA key commands are also useful:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Description |
| Save configuration | NVDA+control+c | NVDA+control+c | Saves your current configuration so that it is not lost when you exit NVDA |
| Revert  configuration | NVDA+control+r | NVDA+control+r | Pressing once resets your configuration to when you last saved it. Pressing three times will reset it back to factory defaults. |
%kc:endInclude

++ Configuration Profiles ++
Sometimes, you may wish to have different settings for different situations.
For example, you may wish to have reporting of indentation enabled while you are editing or reporting of font attributes enabled while you are proofreading.
NVDA allows you to do this using configuration profiles.

A configuration profile contains only those settings which are changed while the profile is being edited.
Most settings can be changed in configuration profiles except for those in the General Settings dialog, which apply to the entirety of NVDA.

Configuration profiles can be manually activated.
They can also be activated automatically due to triggers such as switching to a particular application.

+++ Basic Management +++
You manage configuration profiles by selecting "Configuration profiles" in the NVDA menu.
You can also do this using a key command:
%kc:beginInclude
- NVDA+control+p: Show the Configuration Profiles dialog.
-
%kc:endInclude

The first control in this dialog is the profile list from which you can select one of the available profiles.
When you open the dialog, the profile you are currently editing is selected.
Additional information is also shown for active profiles, indicating whether they are manually activated, triggered and/or being edited.

To rename or delete a profile, press the Rename or Delete buttons, respectively.

Press the Close button to close the dialog.

+++ Creating a Profile +++
To create a profile, press the New button.

In the New Profile dialog, you can enter a name for the profile.
You can also select how this profile should be used.
If you only want to use this profile manually, select Manual activation, which is the default.
Otherwise, select a trigger which should automatically activate this profile.
For convenience, if you haven't entered a name for the profile, selecting a trigger will fill in the name accordingly.
See [below #ConfigProfileTriggers] for more information about triggers.

Pressing OK will create the profile and close the Configuration Profiles dialog so you can edit it.

+++ Manual Activation +++[ConfigProfileManual]
You can manually activate a profile by selecting a profile and pressing the Manual activate button.
Once activated, other profiles can still be activated due to triggers, but any settings in the manually activated profile will override them.
For example, if a profile is triggered for the current application and reporting of links is enabled in that profile but disabled it in the manually activated profile, links will not be reported.
However, if you have changed the voice in the triggered profile but have never changed it in the manually activated profile, the voice from the triggered profile will be used.
Any settings you change will be saved in the manually activated profile.
To deactivate a manually activated profile, select it in the Configuration Profiles dialog and press the Manual deactivate button.

+++ Triggers +++[ConfigProfileTriggers]
Pressing the Triggers button in the Configuration Profiles dialog allows you to change the profiles which should be automatically activated for various triggers.

The Triggers list shows the available triggers, which are as follows:
- Current application: Triggered when you switch to the current application.
- Say all: Triggered while reading with the say all command.
-

To change the profile which should be automatically activated for a trigger, select the trigger and then select the desired profile from the Profile list.
You can select (normal configuration) if you don't want a profile to be used.

Press the Close button to return to the Configuration Profiles dialog.

+++ Editing a Profile +++
If you have manually activated a profile, any settings you change will be saved to that profile.
Otherwise, any settings you change will be saved to the most recently triggered profile.
For example, if you have associated a profile with the Notepad application and you switch to Notepad, any changed settings will be saved to that profile.
Finally, if there is neither a manually activated nor a triggered profile, any settings you change will be saved to your normal configuration.

To edit the profile associated with say all, you must [manually activate #ConfigProfileManual] that profile.

+++ Temporarily Disabling Triggers +++
Sometimes, it is useful to temporarily disable all triggers.
For example, you might wish to edit a manually activated profile or your normal configuration without triggered profiles interfering.
You can do this by checking the Temporarily disable all triggers checkbox in the Configuration Profiles dialog.

++ Location of Configuration files ++
Portable versions of NVDA store all settings, custom appModules and custom drivers in a directory called userConfig, found in the NVDA directory.

Installed versions of NVDA store all settings, custom appModules and custom drivers in a special NVDA directory located in your Windows user profile.
This means that each user on the system can have their own NVDA settings.
To get to your settings directory for an installed version of NVDA, on the start menu you can go to programs -> NVDA -> explore user configuration directory.

Settings for NVDA when running on the logon or UAC screens are stored in the systemConfig directory in NVDA's installation directory.
Usually, this configuration should not be touched.
To change NVDA's configuration on the logon/UAC screens, configure NVDA as you wish while logged into Windows, save the configuration, and then press the "Use currently saved settings on the logon and other secure screens" button in the General Settings dialog.

+ Extra Tools +

++ Log Viewer ++
The log viewer, found under Tools in the NVDA menu, allows you to view all the logging output that has occured up until now from when you last started NVDA.

Apart from reading the content, you can also Save a copy of the log file, or refresh the viewer so that it shows the most recent output since the Log viewer was opened.
These actions are available under the viewer's Log menu.

++ Speech Viewer ++
For sighted software developers or people demoing NVDA to sighted audiences, a floating window is available that allows you to view all the text that NVDA is currently speaking.

To enable the speech viewer, check the "Speech Viewer" menu item under Tools in the NVDA menu.
Uncheck the menu item to disable it.

While the speech viewer is enabled, it constantly updates to show you the most current text being spoken.
However, if you click or focus inside the viewer, NVDA will temporarily stop updating the text, so that you are able to easily select or copy the existing content.

++ Add-ons Manager ++
The Add-ons Manager, accessed by selecting Manage add-ons under Tools in the NVDA menu, allows you to install and uninstall add-on packages for NVDA.
These packages are provided by the community and contain custom code that may add or change features in NVDA or even provide support for extra Braille displays or speech synthesizers.

The Add-ons Manager contains a list that displays all the add-ons currently installed in your NVDA user configuration. 
A package name, version and author are shown for each add-on, though further information such as a description and URL can be viewed by selecting the add-on and pressing the About add-on button.

To browse and download available add-ons online, press the Get add-ons button.
This button opens the [NVDA Add-ons page http://addons.nvda-project.org/].
If NVDA is installed on your system, you can open the add-on directly from the browser to begin the installation process as described below.
Otherwise, save the add-on package and follow the instructions below.

To install an Add-on you previously obtained, press the Install button.
This will allow you to browse for an add-on package (.nvda-addon file) somewhere on your computer or on a network.
Once you press Open, the installation process will begin.

When an add-on is being installed, NVDA will first ask you to confirm that you really wish to install the add-on.
As the functionality of add-ons is unrestricted inside NVDA, which in theory could include accessing your personal data or even the entire system if NVDA is an installed copy, it is very important to only install add-ons from sources you trust.
Once the add-on is installed, NVDA must be restarted for the add-on to start running. 
Until you do, a status of "install" will show for that add-on in the list.

To remove an add-on, select the add-on from the list and press the Remove button.
NVDA will ask if you really wish to do this.
As with installing, NVDA must be restarted for the add-on to be fully  removed.
Until you do, a status of "remove" will be shown for that add-on in the list.

The manager also has a Close button to close the dialog.
If you have installed or removed add-ons, NVDA will first ask you if you wish to restart so that your changes can take effect.

In the past it has been possible to extend NVDA's functionality by copying individual plugins and drivers in to your NVDA user Configuration directory.
Although this version of NVDA  may still   load them, they will not be shown in the Add-on Manager.
It is best to remove these files from your configuration and install  the appropriate add-on if one is available.

++ Python Console ++
The NVDA Python console, found under Tools in the NVDA menu, is a development tool which is useful for debugging, general inspection of NVDA internals or inspection of the accessibility hierarchy of an application.
For more information, please see the Developer Guide available from [the Development section of the NVDA web site http://community.nvda-project.org/wiki/Development].

++ Reload plugins ++
This item, once activated, reloads app modules and global plugins without restarting NVDA, which can be useful for developers.

+ Supported Speech Synthesizers +[SupportedSpeechSynths]
This section contains information about the speech synthesizers supported by NVDA.
For an even more extensive list of  free and commercial synthesizers that you can purchase and download for use with NVDA, please see the page at [http://www.nvda-project.org/wiki/ExtraVoices http://www.nvda-project.org/wiki/ExtraVoices].

++ eSpeak ++
The [eSpeak http://espeak.sourceforge.net/] synthesizer is built directly into NVDA and does not require any other special drivers or components to be installed.
NVDA starts using eSpeak by default.
As this synthesizer is built into NVDA, this is a great choice for when running NVDA off a USB thumb drive on other systems.

Each voice that comes with eSpeak speaks a different language.
There are over 43 different languages supported by eSpeak.

There are also many variants which can be chosen to alter the sound of the voice.

++ Microsoft Speech API version 4 (SAPI 4) ++
SAPI 4 is an older Microsoft standard for software speech synthesizers.
Many speech synthesizers that comply with this standard may be purchased or downloaded for free from various companies and websites.
When using this synthesizer with NVDA, the available voices (accessed from the [Voice Settings dialog #VoiceSettings] or by the [Synth Settings Ring #SynthSettingsRing]) will contain all the voices from all the installed SAPI 4 engines found on your system.

If you have SAPI 4 voices installed but the synthesizer does not appear in NVDA's list of synthesizers, please install the SAPI 4.0 runtime binaries, available at http://activex.microsoft.com/activex/controls/sapi/spchapi.exe.

++ Microsoft Speech API version 5 (SAPI 5) ++
SAPI 5 is a Microsoft standard for software speech synthesizers.
Many speech synthesizers that comply with this standard may be purchased or downloaded for free from various companies and websites, though your system will probably already come with at least one SAPI 5 voice preinstalled.
When using this synthesizer with NVDA, the available voices (accessed from the [Voice Settings dialog #VoiceSettings] or by the [Synth Settings Ring #SynthSettingsRing]) will contain all the voices from all the installed SAPI 5 engines found on your system.

++ Microsoft Speech Platform ++
The Microsoft Speech Platform provides voices for many languages which are normally used in the development of server-based speech applications.
These voices can also be used with NVDA.

To use these voices, you will need to install two components:
- Microsoft Speech Platform - Runtime (Version 11) , x86: http://www.microsoft.com/download/en/details.aspx?id=27225
- Microsoft Speech Platform - Runtime Languages (Version 11): http://www.microsoft.com/download/en/details.aspx?id=27224
 - This page includes many files for both speech recognition and text-to-speech.
 Choose the files containing the TTS data for the desired languages/voices.
 For example, the file MSSpeech_TTS_en-US_ZiraPro.msi is a U.S. English voice.
 -
-

++ Audiologic Tts3 ++
This is a commercial speech synthesizer specifically for the Italian language.
You must have the synthesizer installed on your system in order for it to be used with NVDA.
For more information, please visit the Audiologic website at www.audiologic.it.

This synthesizer does not support [spelling functionality #VoiceSpellingFunctionality].

++ Newfon ++
Newfon is a free commercial synthesizer by Sergey Shishmintzev which supports the Russian and Ukrainian languages.
To download this synthesizer, please visit the downloads section of the Russian NVDA community site: http://ru.nvda-community.org/?page_id=10

This synthesizer does not support [spelling functionality #VoiceSpellingFunctionality].

++ Nuance Vocalizer for NVDA ++
Nuance Vocalizer is a commercial, high quality voice synthesizer developed by Nuance Communications, Inc. and packaged specifically for NVDA by Tiflotecnia, Lda.
It contains over 50 different voices you can install, speaking over 30 languages.
All synthesizer components and voices are bundled in add-on packages, which allows for full usage in portable copies of NVDA.

You can get more information about Nuance Vocalizer for NVDA and how to buy it on its web site at [www.vocalizer-nvda.com http://www.vocalizer-nvda.com/].
A percentage of sales of this product is donated to NV Access to fund further development of the NVDA Screen Reader.

+ Supported Braille Displays +[SupportedBrailleDisplays]
This section contains information about the Braille displays supported by NVDA.

++ Freedom Scientific Focus/PAC Mate Series ++
All Focus and PAC Mate displays from [Freedom Scientific http://www.freedomscientific.com/] are supported when connected via USB or bluetooth.
You will need the Freedom Scientific braille display drivers installed on your system.
If you do not have them already, you can obtain them from http://www.freedomscientific.com/downloads/focus-40-blue/focus-40-14-blue-downloads.asp.
Although this page only mentions the Focus Blue display, the drivers support all Freedom Scientific Focus and Pacmate displays.
If your system is running 64 bit Windows and the drivers were already installed by another screen reader, you will probably still need to install the drivers from this link, as the files required by NVDA were probably not installed by the other screen reader.

By default, NVDA can automatically detect and connect to these displays either via USB or bluetooth.
However, when configuring the display, you can explicitly select "USB" or "Bluetooth" ports to restrict the connection type to be used.
This might be useful if you want to connect the focus display to NVDA using bluetooth, but still be able to charge it using USB power from your computer.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | topRouting1 (first cell on display) |
| Scroll braille display forward | topRouting20/40/80 (last cell on display) |
| Scroll braille display back | leftAdvanceBar |
| Scroll braille display forward | rightAdvanceBar |
| Toggle braille tethered to | leftGDFButton+rightGDFButton |
| Toggle left wiz wheel action | leftWizWheelPress |
| Move back using left wiz wheel action | leftWizWheelUp |
| Move forward using left wiz wheel action | leftWizWheelDown |
| Toggle right wiz wheel action | rightWizWheelPress |
| Move back using right wiz wheel action | rightWizWheelUp |
| Move forward using right wiz wheel action | rightWizWheelDown |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| backspace key | dot7 |
| enter key | dot8 |
| shift+tab key | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot2 |
| tab key | brailleSpaceBar+dot4+dot5 |
| upArrow key | brailleSpaceBar+dot1 |
| downArrow key | brailleSpaceBar+dot4 |
| control+leftArrow key | brailleSpaceBar+dot2 |
| control+rightArrow key | brailleSpaceBar+dot5 |
| leftArrow | brailleSpaceBar+dot3 |
| rightArrow key | brailleSpaceBar+dot6 |
| home key | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot3 |
| end key | brailleSpaceBar+dot4+dot6 |
| control+home key | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot2+dot3 |
| control+end key | brailleSpaceBar+dot4+dot5+dot6 |
| alt key | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot3+dot4 |
| alt+tab key | brailleSpaceBar+dot2+dot3+dot4+dot5 |
| escape key | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot5 |
| windows key | brailleSpaceBar+dot2+dot4+dot5+dot6 |
| space key | brailleSpaceBar |
| windows+d key (minimize all applications) | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot2+dot3+dot4+dot5+dot6 |
| Report Current Line | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot4 |
| NVDA menu | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot3+dot4+dot5 |

For newer Focus models that contain rocker bar keys (focus 40, focus 80 and focus blue):
|| Name | Key |
| Move braille display to previous line | leftRockerBarUp, rightRockerBarUp |
| Move braille display to next line | leftRockerBarDown, rightRockerBarDown |

For Focus 80 only:
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | leftBumperBarUp, rightBumperBarUp |
| Scroll braille display forward | leftBumperBarDown, rightBumperBarDown |
%kc:endInclude

++ Optelec ALVA BC640/680 ++
Both the ALVA BC640 and BC680 displays from [Optelec http://www.optelec.com/] are supported when connected via USB or bluetooth.
You do not need any specific drivers to be installed to use these displays.
Just plug in the display and configure NVDA to use it.

While these displays do have a braille keyboard, they handle translation from braille to text themselves.
Therefore, NVDA's braille input table setting is not relevant.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | t1 |
| Move braille display to previous line | t2 |
| Move braille display to next line | t4 |
| Scroll braille display forward | t5 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| shift+tab key | sp1 |
| alt key | sp2 |
| escape key | sp3 |
| tab key | sp4 |
| upArrow key | spUp |
| downArrow key | spDown |
| leftArrow key | spLeft |
| rightArrow key | spRight |
| enter key | spEnter |
| NVDA Menu | sp1+sp3 |
| windows+d key (minimize all applications) | sp1+sp4 |
| windows key | sp2+sp3 |
| alt+tab key | sp2+sp4 |
%kc:endInclude

++ Handy Tech Displays ++
NVDA supports all displays from [Handy Tech http://www.handytech.de/] when connected via USB or bluetooth.
For older USB displays, you will need to install the USB drivers from Handy Tech on your system.

Braille input is not yet supported.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left, up |
| Scroll braille display forward | right, down |
| Move braille display to previous line | b4 |
| Move braille display to next line | b5 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| shift+tab key | esc |
| alt key | b2+b4+b5 |
| escape key | b4+b6 |
| tab key | enter |
| enter key | esc+enter |
| upArrow key | leftSpace |
| downArrow key | rightSpace |
| NVDA Menu | b2+b4+b5+b6 |
| Handy Tech configuration | b4+b8 |
%kc:endInclude

++ MDV Lilli ++
The Lilli braille display available from [MDV http://www.mdvbologna.it/] is supported.
You do not need any specific drivers to be installed to use this display.
Just plug in the display and configure NVDA to use it.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display backward | LF |
| Scroll braille display forward | RG |
| Move braille display to previous line | UP |
| Move braille display to next line | DN |
| Route to braille cell | route |
| shift+tab key | SLF |
| tab key | SRG |
| alt+tab key | SDN |
| alt+shift+tab key | SUP |
%kc:endInclude

++ Baum/Humanware/APH Braille Displays ++
Several [Baum http://www.baum.de/cms/en/], [HumanWare http://www.humanware.com/] and [APH http://www.aph.org/] displays are supported when connected via USB or bluetooth.
These include:
- Baum: SuperVario, PocketVario
- HumanWare: Brailliant, BrailleConnect
- APH: Refreshabraille
-
Some other displays manufactured by Baum may also work, though this has not been tested.

If connecting via USB, you must first install the USB drivers provided by the manufacturer.
For the APH Refreshabraille, the USB mode must be set to serial.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | d2 |
| Scroll braille display forward | d5 |
| Move braille display to previous line | d1 |
| Move braille display to next line | d3 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |

For displays which have a joystick:
|| Name | Key |
| upArrow key | up |
| downArrow key | down |
| leftArrow key | left |
| rightArrow key | right |
| enter key | select |
%kc:endInclude

++ hedo ProfiLine USB ++
The hedo ProfiLine USB from [hedo Reha-Technik http://www.hedo.de/] is supported.
You must first install the USB drivers provided by the manufacturer.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | K1 |
| Scroll braille display forward | K3 |
| Move braille display to previous line | B2 |
| Move braille display to next line | B5 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Toggle braille tethered to | K2 |
| Say all | B6 |
%kc:endInclude

++ hedo MobilLine USB ++
The hedo MobilLine USB from [hedo Reha-Technik http://www.hedo.de/] is supported.
You must first install the USB drivers provided by the manufacturer.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | K1 |
| Scroll braille display forward | K3 |
| Move braille display to previous line | B2 |
| Move braille display to next line | B5 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Toggle braille tethered to | K2 |
| Say all | B6 |
%kc:endInclude

++ HumanWare Brailliant BI/B Series ++
The Brailliant BI and B series of displays from [HumanWare http://www.humanware.com/], including the BI 32, BI 40 and B 80, are supported when connected via USB or bluetooth.
If connecting via USB, you must first install the USB drivers provided by the manufacturer.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left |
| Scroll braille display forward | right |
| Move braille display to previous line | up |
| Move braille display to next line | down |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Toggle braille tethered to | up+down |
| upArrow key | space+dot1 |
| downArrow key | space+dot4 |
| leftArrow key | space+dot3 |
| rightArrow key | space+dot6 |
| NVDA Menu | c1+c3+c4+c5 (command n) |
| shift+tab key | space+dot1+dot3 |
| tab key | space+dot4+dot6 |
| alt key | space+dot1+dot3+dot4 (space+m) |
| escape key | space+dot1+dot5 (space+e) |
| enter key | dot8 |
| windows+d key (minimize all applications) | c1+c4+c5 (command d) |
| windows key | space+dot3+dot4 |
| alt+tab key | space+dot2+dot3+dot4+dot5 (space+t) |
| Say all | c1+c2+c3+c4+c5+c6 |
%kc:endInclude

++ HIMS Braille Sense/Braille EDGE Series ++
NVDA supports Braille Sense and Braille EDGE displays from [Hims http://www.hims-inc.com/] when connected via USB or bluetooth. 
If connecting via USB, you will need to install the USB drivers from HIMS on your system.
You can download these from the HIMS Resource Center: http://www.hims-inc.com/resource-center/
On this page, select your device and download the driver in the Window-Eyes section.
Although the section only mentions Window-Eyes, this is a general USB driver which will work with NVDA as well.

Following are the key assignments for these displays with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left side scroll down |
| Scroll braille display forward | right side scroll down |
| Move braille display to previous line | left side scroll up |
| Move braille display to next line | right side scroll up |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| shift+tab key | dot1+dot2+space |
| alt key | dot1+dot3+dot4+Space |
| escape key | dot1+dot5+Space |
| tab key | dot4+dot5+Space |
| enter key | dot8 |
| backspace key | dot7 |
| upArrow key | dot1+Space |
| downArrow key | dot4+Space |
| capsLock | dot1+dot3+dot6+space |
| shift+alt+tab key | advance2+advance3+advance1 |
| alt+tab key | advance2+advance3 |
| end key | dot4+dot6+space |
| Control+end key | dot4+dot5+dot6+space |
| home key | dot1+dot3+space |
| control+home key | dot1+dot2+dot3+space |
| leftArrow key | dot3+space |
| control+shift+leftArrow key | dot2+dot8+space+advance1 |
| control+leftArrow key | dot2+space |
| shift+alt+leftArrow key | dot2+dot7+advance1 |
| alt+leftArrow key | dot2+dot7 |
| rightArrow key | dot6+space |
| control+shift+rightArrow key | dot5+dot8+space+advance1 |
| control+rightArrow key | dot5+space |
| shift+alt+rightArrow key | dot5+dot7+advance1 |
| alt+rightArrow key | dot5+dot7 |
| pageUp key | dot1+dot2+dot6+space |
| control+pageUp key | dot1+dot2+dot6+dot8+space |
| control+shift+upArrow key | dot2+dot3+dot8+space+advance1 |
| control+upArrow key | dot2+dot3+space |
| shift+alt+upArrow key | dot2+dot3+dot7+advance1 |
| alt+upArrow key | dot2+dot3+dot7 |
| shift+upArrow key | left side scroll down + space |
| pageDown key | dot3+dot4+dot5+space |
| control+pagedown key | dot3+dot4+dot5+dot8+space |
| control+shift+downArrow key | dot5+dot6+dot8+space+advance1 |
| control+downArrow key | dot5+dot6+space |
| shift+alt+downArrow key | dot5+dot6+dot7+advance1 |
| alt+downArrow key | dot5+dot6+dot7 |
| shift+downArrow key | right side scroll down + space |
| delete key | dot1+dot3+dot5+space |
| f1 key | dot1+dot2+dot5+space |
| f3 key | dot1+dot2+dot4+dot8 |
| f4 key | dot7+advance3 |
| windows+b key | dot1+dot2+advance1 |
| windows+d key | dot1+dot4+dot5+advance1 |
%kc:endInclude

++ HIMS SyncBraille ++
NVDA supports the SyncBraille Display from [HIMS http://www.hims-inc.com/].
You will need to install the USB drivers from HIMS on your system.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left side scroll down |
| Scroll braille display forward | right side scroll down |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
%kc:endInclude

++ Seika Braille Displays ++
The Seika Version 3, 4 and 5 (40 cells) and Seika80 (80 cells) braille displays from [Nippon Telesoft http://www.nippontelesoft.com/] are supported.
You can find more information about these displays at http://www.seika-braille.com/.
You must first install the USB drivers provided by the manufacturer.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left |
| Scroll braille display forward | right |
| Move braille display to previous line | b3 |
| Move braille display to next line | b4 |
| Toggle braille tethered to | b5 |
| Say all | b6 |
| tab | b1 |
| shift+tab | b2 |
| alt+tab | b1+b2 |
| NVDA Menu | left+right |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
%kc:endInclude

++ Papenmeier BRAILLEX Newer Models ++
The following Braille displays are supported: 
- BRAILLEX EL 40c, EL 80c, EL 20c, EL 60c (USB)
- BRAILLEX EL 40s, EL 80s, EL 2d80s, EL 70s, EL 66s (USB)
- BRAILLEX Trio (USB and bluetooth)
-

If BrxCom is installed, NVDA will use BrxCom.
BrxCom is a tool that allows you to use the Braille input independently from a screen reader.
A new version of BrxCom which works with NVDA will be released by Papenmeier soon.  
However, braille input is possible with the Trio device without BrxCom.

Most devices have an Easy Access Bar (EAB) that allows intuitive and fast operation.
The EAB can be moved in four directions where generally each direction has two switches.
The c-series is the only exception to this rule.

The c-series and some other displays have two routing rows whereby the upper row is used to report formatting information.
Holding one of the upper routing keys and pressing the EAB on c-series devices emulates the second switch state.
Pressing and holding the up, down, right and left keys (or EAB) causes the corresponding action to be repeated.

Generally, the following keys are available on these braille displays:
|| Name | Key |
| l1 | Left front key |
| l2 | Left rear key |
| r1 | Right front key |
| r2 | Right rear key |
| up | 1 Step up |
| up2 | 2 Steps up |
| left | 1 Step left |
| left2 | 2 Steps left |
| right | 1 Step right |
| right2 | 2 Steps right |
| dn | 1 Step down |
| dn2 | 2 Steps down |

Following are the Papenmeier command assignments for NVDA:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left |
| Scroll braille display forward | right |
| Move braille display to previous line | up |
| Move braille display to next line | dn |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Report current character in review | l1 |
| Activate current navigator object | l2 |
| Report title | l1+up |
| Report Status Bar | l2+down |
| Move to containing object | up2 |
| Move to first contained object | dn2 |
| Move to previous object | left2 |
| Move to next object | right2 |
| Report text formatting | upper routing row |
%kc:endInclude

The Trio model has four additional keys which are in front of the braille keyboard.
These are (ordered from left to right):
- left thumb key (lt)
- space
- space
- right thumb key (rt)
-
Currently, the right thumb key is not in use.
The inner keys are both mapped to space.

%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| backspace key | dot 7 |
| enter key | dot 8 |
| escape key | space with dot 7 |
| upArrow key | space with dot 2 |
| leftArrow key | space with dot 1 |
| rightArrow key | space with dot 4 |
| downArrow | space with dot 5 |
| control key | lt+dot2 |
| alt key | lt+dot3 |
| control+escape key | space with dot 1 2 3 4 5 6 |
| tab key | space with dot 3 7 |
%kc:endInclude 

++ Papenmeier Braille BRAILLEX Older Models ++
The following Braille displays are supported: 
- BRAILLEX EL 80, EL 2D-80, EL 40 P
- BRAILLEX Tiny, 2D Screen
-

Note that these displays can only be connected via a serial port.
Therefore, you should select the port to which the display is connected after you have chosen this driver in the Braille Settings dialogue.

Some of these devices have an Easy Access Bar (EAB) that allows intuitive and fast operation.
The EAB can be moved in four directions where generally each direction has two switches.
Pressing and holding the up, down, right and left keys (or EAB) causes the corresponding action to be repeated.
Older devices do not have an EAB; front keys are used instead.

Generally, the following keys are available on braille displays:

|| Name | Key |
| l1 | Left front key |
| l2 | Left rear key |
| r1 | Right front key |
| r2 | Right rear key |
| up | 1 Step up |
| up2 | 2 Steps up |
| left | 1 Step left |
| left2 | 2 Steps left |
| right | 1 Step right |
| right2 | 2 Steps right |
| dn | 1 Step down |
| dn2 | 2 Steps down |

Following are the Papenmeier command assignments for NVDA:

%kc:beginInclude
Devices with EAB:
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left |
| Scroll braille display forward | right |
| Move braille display to previous line | up |
| Move braille display to next line | dn |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Report current character in review | l1 |
| Activate current navigator object | l2 |
| Report title | l1up |
| Report Status Bar | l2down |
| Move to containing object | up2 |
| Move to first contained object | dn2 |
| Move to next object | right2 |
| Move to previous object | left2 |
| Report text formatting | Upper routing strip |

BRAILLEX Tiny:
|| Name | Key |
| Report current character in review | l1 |
| Activate current navigator object | l2 |
| Scroll braille display back | left |
| Scroll braille display forward | right |
| Move braille display to previous line | up |
| Move braille display to next line | dn |
| Toggle braille tethered to | r2 |
| Move to containing object | r1+up |
| Move to first contained object | r1+dn |
| Move to previous object | r1+left |
| Move to next object | r1+right |
| Report text formatting | reportf |

BRAILLEX 2D Screen:
|| Name | Key |
| Report current character in review | l1 |
| Activate current navigator object | l2 |
| Toggle braille tethered to | r2 |
| Report text formatting | reportf |
| Move braille display to previous line | up |
| Scroll braille display back | left |
| Scroll braille display forward | right |
| Move braille display to next line | dn |
| Move to next object | left2 |
| Move to containing object | up2 |
| Move to first contained object | dn2 |
| Move to previous object | right2 |
%kc:endInclude

++ HumanWare BrailleNote ++
NVDA supports the BrailleNote notetakers from [Humanware http://www.humanware.com] when acting as a display terminal for a screen reader.
The following models are supported:
- BrailleNote Classic (serial connection only)
- BrailleNote PK (Serial and bluetooth connections)
- BrailleNote MPower (Serial and bluetooth connections)
- BrailleNote Apex (USB and Bluetooth connections)
-

If your device supports more than one type of connection, when connecting your BrailleNote to NVDA, you must set the braille terminal port in braille terminal options.
Please check the BrailleNote manual for details.
In NVDA, you may also need to set the port in the Braille Settings dialog.
If you are connecting via USB or bluetooth, you can set the port to "Automatic", "USB" or "Bluetooth", depending on the available choices.
If connecting using a legacy serial port (or a USB to serial converter) or if none of the previous options appear, you must explicitly choose the communication port to be used from the list of hardware ports.

Before connecting your BrailleNote Apex using its USB client interface, you must install the drivers provided by HumanWare.

Following are the BrailleNote command assignments for NVDA.
Please check your BrailleNote's documentation to find where these keys are located.

%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | back |
| Scroll braille display forward | advance |
| Move braille display to previous line | previous |
| Move braille display to next line | next |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Toggle braille tethered to | previous+next |
| Up arrow key | space+dot1 |
| Down arrow key | space+dot4 |
| Left Arrow key | space+dot3 |
| Right arrow key | space+dot6 |
| Page up key | space+dot1+dot3 |
| Page down key | space+dot4+dot6 |
| Home key | space+dot1+dot2 |
| End key | space+dot4+dot5 |
| Control+home keys | space+dot1+dot2+dot3 |
| Control+end keys | space+dot4+dot5+dot6 |
| Space key | space |
| Enter key | space+dot8 |
| Backspace key | space+dot7 |
| Tab key | space+dot2+dot3+dot4+dot5 (space+t) |
| Shift+tab keys | space+dot1+dot2+dot5+dot6 |
| Windows key | space+dot2+dot4+dot5+dot6 (space+w) |
| Alt key | space+dot1+dot3+dot4 (space+m) |
| Toggle input help | space+dot2+dot3+dot6 (space+lower h) |
%kc:endInclude

++ BRLTTY ++
[BRLTTY http://mielke.cc/brltty/] is a separate program which can be used to support many more braille displays.
In order to use this, you need to install [BRLTTY for Windows http://brl.thefreecat.org/brltty/].
You should download and install the latest installer package, which will be named, for example, brltty-win-4.2-2.exe.
When configuring the display and port to use, be sure to pay close attention to the instructions, especially if you are using a USB display and already have the manufacturer's drivers installed.

For displays which have a braille keyboard, BRLTTY currently handles braille input itself.
Therefore, NVDA's braille input table setting is not relevant.

Following are the BRLTTY command assignments for NVDA.
Please see the [BRLTTY key tables documentation http://mielke.cc/brltty/doc/drivers/] for information about how BRLTTY commands are mapped to controls on braille displays.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | BRLTTY command |
| Scroll braille display back | fwinlt (go left one window) |
| Scroll braille display forward | fwinrt (go right one window) |
| Move braille display to previous line | lnup (go up one line) |
| Move braille display to next line | lndn (go down one line) |
| Route to braille cell | route (bring cursor to character) |
%kc:endInclude

+ Advanced Topics +

++ Advanced Customization of Symbol Pronunciation ++
It is possible to customize the pronunciation of punctuation and other symbols beyond what can be done using the [Punctuation/symbol pronunciation #SymbolPronunciation] dialog.
For example, you can specify whether the raw symbol should be sent to the synthesizer (e.g. to cause a pause or change in inflection) and you can add custom symbols.

To do this, you must edit the symbol pronunciation information file in your NVDA user configuration directory.
The file is called symbols-xx.dic, where xx is the language code.
The format of this file is documented in the Symbol Pronunciation section of the NVDA Developer Guide, which is available from [the Development section of the NVDA web site http://community.nvda-project.org/wiki/Development].
However, it is not possible for users to define complex symbols.

+ Further Information +
If you require further information or assistance regarding NVDA, please visit the NVDA web site at NVDA_URL.
Here, you can find additional documentation, as well as technical support and community resources.
This site also provides information and resources concerning NVDA development.

