Što je novo u NVDA


%!includeconf: ../changes.t2tconf

 2015.1 =

== Nove značajke ==
- Sada možete dodavati nove simbole u dijaloškom okviru za dodavanje novih simbola. (#4354)
- U dijaloškom okviru ulazne geste možete koristiti novu značajku "filtriraj po" kako biste prikazali geste koje sadrže samo određene riječi. (#4458)
- NVDA sada automatski čita tekst u aplikaciji in mintty. (#4588)
- U dijaloškom okviru moda surfanja, moguće je koristiti pretragu osjetljivu na velika slova. (#4584)


== Izmjene ==
- U dijaloškom okviru oblikovanje dokumenta, opcija izvjesti o pravopisnim pogreškama sada ima tipkovnički prečac (alt+r). (#793)


== Ispravke grešaka ==
- In Microsoft Excel, handle the case when row and column header cells are merged. E.g. if A1 and B1 are merged, then B2 will now have A1 and B1 reported as its column header, rather than nothing at all. (#4617)
- When editing the content of a text box in Microsoft PowerPoint 2003, NVDA will correctly report the content of each line. Previously lines would increasingly be off by one character for each new paragraph. (#4619)
- All of NVDA's dialogs are now centred on the screen, improving visual presentation and usability. (#3148)
- In Skype for desktop, when entering an introductory message to add a contact, entering and moving through the text now works correctly. (#3661)
- When focus moves to a new itemn in tree views in the Eclipse IDE, if the previously focused item is a check box, it is no longer incorrectly announced. (#4586)
- In the Microsoft Word spell check dialog, the next error will be automatically reported when the last one has been changed or ignored via its shortcut key. (#1938)


= 2014.4 =

== Nove mogućnosti ==
- Novi jezici: Kolumbijski španjolski, Pendžabski.
- Sada je moguće ponovno pokrenuti NVDA, ili ponovno pokrenuti NVDA sa isključenim dodacima u NVDA dijaloškom okviru za izlaz. (#4057)
 - NVDA je također moguće pokrenuti sa isključenim dodacima uporabom opcije --disable-addons u naredbenom retku.
- U govornim rječnicima, sada je moguće odrediti hoće li se uzorak slagati samo ako se radi o cijeloj riječi; npr. ne pojavljuje se kao dio veće riječi. (#1704)


== Promjene ==
- Ako je objekt na koji ste se pomaknuli uporabom objektne navigacije unutar dokumenta koji radi u modu surfanja, ali objekt na kojem ste se prethodno nalazili nije bio, mod pregleda je automatski postavljen na dokument. Ranije se ovo događalo samo ako je objekt navigator pomaknut zbog promjene fokusa. (#4369)
- Popisi brajičnih redaka i govornih jedinica u njihovim odgovarajućim dijaloškim okvirima postavki su sada sortirani abecednim redom, svi osim stavke Bez brajice/Bez govora koje se sada nalaze na kraju popisa. (#2724)
- Brajični prevoditelj liblouis je ažuriran na inačicu 2.6.0. (#4434, #3835)
- U modu surfanja, pritisak na e i shift+e za kretanje po poljima za uređivanje sada uključuje i uređivajučke odabirne okvire. Ovo se odnosi i na okvir za pretraživanje u zadnjoj inačici Google tražilice. (#4436)
- Klik na NVDA ikonu u području obavijesti uporabom lijeve tipke miša sada otvara NVDA izbornik, umjesto da ne napravi ništa. (#4459)


== Ispravke grešaka ==
- Prilikom premiještanja fokusa natrag u dokument koji radi u modu surfanja (npr. ponavljanja alt+tab naredbe za dolazak do već otvorene web stranice), pregledni kursor je ispravno pozicioniran na virtualnu točku umetanja, a ne više na fokusiranu kontrolu (npr. na obližnji link). (#4369)
- U Powerpoint dijaprojekcijama, pregledni kursor ispravno slijedi virtualnu točku umetanja. (#4370)
- U Mozilla Firefox-u i ostalim preglednicima zasnovanim na Gecko-u, novi sadržaj unutar žive regije će se najaviti čak i ako novi sadržaj ima upotrebljiv ARIA živi tip koji je drugačiji od matične žive regije; npr. kada je sadržaj označen kao pouzdan dodan u živu regiju označenu kao uglađenu. (#4169)
- U Internet Explorer-u i drugim MSHTML kontrolama, neki slućajevi gdje je dokument sadržan unutar drugog dokumenta više ne sprječavaju korisnika da pristupi nekom sadržaju (naročito okviri unutar okvira). (#4418)
- NVDA se više ne ruši prilikom pokušaja korištenja Handy Tech brajičnog retka u nekim slućajevima. (#3709)
- U Windows Vista sustavu, lažan dijaloški okvir "Ulazna točka nije pronađena" više se ne prikazuje u nekoliko slućajeva kao što su pokretanje NVDA preko prečaca na radnoj površini ili putem tipkovnog prečaca. (#4235)
- Ozbiljni problemi sa kontrolama uređivanja teksta unutar dijaloških okvira u nedavnim inačicama Eclipse-a su ispravljeni. (#3872)
- U Outlook-u 2010, premiještanje točke umetanja sada funkcionira kako treba u polju za lokaciju kod zahtjeva za sastanke. (#4126)
- Unutar žive regije, sadržaj koji je označen kao neživ (npr. aria-live="off") će se sada ispravno ignorirati. (#4405)
- Prilikom izgovaranja teksta statusne trake koja ima naziv, naziv je sada ispravno odvojen od prve riječi teksta statusne trake. (#4430)
- U poljima za unos lozinke sa omogućenom opcijom za izgovaranje utipkanih riječi, višestruke zvjezdice se neće irelevantno najavljivati kod započinjanja novih riječi. (#4402)
- U Microsoft Outlook popisu poruka, stavke se više neće irelevantno najavljivati kao podatkovne stavke. (#4439)
- Prilikom odabira teksta unutar kontrole za uređivanje koda u Eclipse razvojnom okruženju, više se neće najaviti cjelokupan odabir svaki put kada se odabir promijeni. (#2314)
- Različite inačice Eclipse-a, poput Spring Tool Suite-a i inačice uključene u Android Developer Tools paketu se sada prepoznaju kao Eclipse i njima se postupa na odgovarajući način. (#4360, #4454)
- Praćenje miša i istraživanje dodirom u Internet Explorer-u i drugim MSHTML kontrolama (uključujući mnoge Windows 8 aplikacije) sada je puno preciznije na zaslonima visoke rezolucije ili kada se mijenja uvećanje dokumenta. (#3494) 
- Praćenje miša i istraživanje dodirom u Internet Explorer-u i drugim MSHTML kontrolama će sada najaviti naziv za više gumbi. (#4173)
- Pri korištenju Papenmeier BRAILLEX brajičnog retka sa BrxCom-om, tipke na retku sada rade kako treba. (#4614)


== Promjene za razvojne programere ==
- Za izvršne datoteke koje ugošćuju mnogo drugih aplikacija (npr. javaw.exe), kod sada može biti uvjet za učitavanje specifičnih aplikacijskih modula za svaku aplikaciju umjesto učitavanja istog aplikacijskog modula za sve ugošćene aplikacije. (#4360)
 - Pogledajte dokumentaciju koda za appModuleHandler.AppModule za pojedinosti.
 - Uvedena je podrška za javaw.exe.


= 2014.3 =

== New Features ==
- The sounds played when NVDA starts and exits can be disabled via a new option in the General Settings dialog. (#834)
- Help for add-ons can be accessed from the Add-ons Manager for add-ons which support this. (#2694)
- Support for the Calendar in Microsoft Outlook 2007 and above (#2943) including:
 - Announcement of the current time when moving around with the arrow keys.
 - Indication if the selected time is within any appointments.
 - announcement of the selected appointment when pressing tab.
 - Smart filtering of the date so as to only announce the date if the new selected time or appointment is on a different day to the last.
- Enhanced support for the Inbox and other message lists in Microsoft Outlook 2010 and above (#3834) including:
 - The ability to silence column headers (from, subject, etc.) by turning off the Report Table row and column headers option in Document Formatting settings.
 - The ability to use table navigation commands (control + alt + arrows) to move through the individual columns. 
- Microsoft word: If an inline image has no alternative text set, NVDA will instead report the title of the image if the author has provided one. (#4193)
- Microsoft Word: NVDA can now report paragraph indenting with  the report formatting command (NVDA+f). It can also be reported automatically when the new Report Paragraph indenting option is enabled in Document Formatting settings. (#4165)
- Report automatically inserted text such as a new bullet, number or tab indent when pressing enter in editable documents and text fields. (#4185)
- Microsoft word: Pressing NVDA+alt+c will report  the text of a comment if the cursor is within one. (#3528)
- Improved support for automatic column and row header reading in Microsoft Excel (#3568) including:
 - Support of Excel defined name ranges to identify header cells (compatible with Jaws screen reader) .
 - The set column header (NVDA+shift+c) and set row header (NVDA+shift+r) commands now store the settings in the worksheet so that they are available the next time the sheet is opened, and will be available to other screen readers that support the defined name range scheme.
 - These commands can also now be used multiple times per sheet to set different headers for different regions.
- Support for automatic column and row header reading in Microsoft Word (#3110) including:
 - Support of Microsoft Word bookmarks to identify header cells (compatible with Jaws screen reader).
 -  set column header (NVDA+shift+c) and set row header (NVDA+shift+r) commands  while on the first header cell in a table allow you to tell NVDA that these headers should be reported automatically.  Settings are stored in the document so that they are available the next time the document is opened, and will be available to other screen readers that support the bookmark scheme.
- Microsoft Word: Report the distance from the left edge of the page when the tab key is pressed. (#1353)
- Microsoft Word: provide feedback in speech and braille for most available formatting shortcut keys (bold, italic, underline, alignment, outline level, superscript, subscript and font size). (#1353)
- Microsoft Excel: If the selected cell contains comments, they can be now reported by pressing NVDA+alt+c. (#2920)
- Microsoft Excel: Provide an NVDA-specific dialog to edit the comments on the currently selected cell when pressing Excel's shift+f2 command to enter comment editing mode. (#2920)
- Microsoft Excel: speech and braille feedback for many more selection movement shortcuts (#4211) including:
 - Vertical page movement (pageUp and pageDown);
 - Horizontal page movement (alt+pageUp and alt+pageDown);
 - Extend selection (the above keys with Shift added); and
 - Selecting the current region (control+shift+8).
- Microsoft Excel: The vertical and horizontal  alignment for cells can now be reported with the report formatting command (NVDA+f). It can also be reported automatically if the Report alignment option in Document Formatting settings is enabled. (#4212)
- Microsoft Excel: The style of a cell can now be reported with the report formatting command (NVDA+f). It can also be reported automatically if the Report Style option in Document formatting settings is enabled. (#4213)
- Microsoft PowerPoint: when moving shapes around a slide with the arrow keys, the shape's current location is now reported (#4214) including:
 - The distance between the shape and each of the  slide edges is reported.
 - If the shape covers or is covered by another shape, then the distance overlapped and the overlapped shape are reported.
 - To report this information at any time without moving a shape, press the report location command (NVDA+delete).
 - When selecting a shape, if it is covered by another shape, NVDA will report that it is obscured.
- The report location command (NVDA+delete) is more context specific in some situations. (#4219)
 - In standard edit fields and browse mode, the cursor position as a percentage through the content and its screen coordinates are reported.
 - On shapes in PowerPoint Presentations, position of the shape relative to the slide and other shapes is reported.
 - Pressing this command twice will produce the previous behaviour of reporting the location information for the entire control.
- New language: Catalan.


== Changes ==
- Updated liblouis braille translator to 2.5.4. (#4103)


== Bug Fixes ==
- In Google Chrome and Chrome-based browsers, certain chunks of text (such as those with emphasis) are no longer repeated when reporting the text of an alert or dialog. (#4066)
- In browse mode in Mozilla applications, pressing enter on a button, etc. no longer fails to activate it (or activates the wrong control) in certain cases such as the buttons at the top of Facebook. (#4106)
- Useless information is no longer announced when tabbing in iTunes. (#4128)
- In certain lists in iTunes such as the Music list, moving to the next item using object navigation now works correctly. (#4129)
- HTML elements considered headings because of WAI ARIA markup are now included in the Browse mode Elements list and quick navigation for Internet Explorer documents. (#4140)
- Following same-page links in recent versions of Internet Explorer now correctly moves to and reports the destination position in browse mode  documents. (#4134)
- Microsoft Outlook 2010 and above: Overall access to secure dialogs such as the New profiles and mail setup dialogs has been improved. (#4090, #4091, #4095)
- Microsoft Outlook: Useless verbosity has been decreased in command toolbars when navigating through  certain dialogs. (#4096, #3407)
- Microsoft word: Tabbing to a blank cell in a table no longer incorrectly announces exiting the table. (#4151)
- Microsoft Word: The first character past the end of a table (including a new blank line) is no longer incorrectly considered to be inside the table. (#4152)
- Microsoft Word 2010 spell check dialog: The actual misspelled word is reported rather than  inappropriately reporting just the first bold word. (#3431)
- In browse mode in Internet Explorer and other MSHTML controls, tabbing or using single letter navigation to move to form fields again reports the label in many cases where it didn't (specifically, where HTML label elements are used). (#4170)
- Microsoft Word: Reporting the existance and placement of comments is more accurate. (#3528)
- Navigation of certain dialogs in MS Office products such as Word, Excel and Outlook has been improved by no longer reporting particular control container toolbars which are not useful to the user. (#4198) 
- Task panes such as clipboard manager or File recovery no longer accidentilly seem to gain focus when opening an application such as Microsoft Word or Excel, which was sometimes causing the user to have to switch away from and back to the application to use the document or spreadsheet.  (#4199)
- NVDA no longer fails to run on recent Windows Operating Systems if the user's Windows language is set to Serbian (Latin). (#4203)
- Pressing numlock while in input help mode now correctly toggles numlock, rather than causing the keyboard and the Operating System to become out of sync in regards to the state of this key. (#4226)
- In Google Chrome, the title of the document is again reported when switching tabs. In NVDA 2014.2, this did not occur in some cases. (#4222)
- In Google Chrome and Chrome-based browsers, the URL of the document is no longer reported when reporting the document. (#4223)
- When running say all with the No speech synthesizer selected (useful for automated testing), say all will now complete instead of stopping after the first few lines. (#4225)
- Microsoft Outlook's Signature dialog: The Signature editing field is now accessible, allowing for full cursor tracking and format detection. (#3833)
- Microsoft Word: When reading the last line of a table cell, the entire table cell is no longer read. (#3421)
- Microsoft Word: When reading the first or last line of a table of contents, the entire table of contents is no longer read. (#3421)
- When speaking typed words and in some other cases, words are no longer incorrectly broken at marks such as vowel signs and virama in Indic languages. (#4254)
- Numeric editable text fields in GoldWave are now handled correctly. (#670)
- Microsoft Word: when moving by paragraph with control+downArrow / control+upArrow, it is no longer necessary to press them twice if moving through bulleted or numbered lists. (#3290)


== Changes for Developers ==
- NVDA now has unified support for add-on documentation. See the Add-on Documentation section of the Developer Guide for details. (#2694)
- When providing gesture bindings on a ScriptableObject via __gestures, it is now possible to provide the None keyword as the script. This unbinds the gesture in any base classes. (#4240)
- It is now possible to change the shortcut key used to start NVDA for locales where the normal shortcut causes problems. (#2209)
 - This is done via gettext.
 - Note that the text for the Create desktop shortcut option in the Install NVDA dialog, as well as the shortcut key in the User Guide, must also be updated.


= 2014.2 =

== New Features ==
- Announcement of text selection is now possible in some custom edit fields where display information is used. (#770)
- In accessible Java applications, position information is now announced for radio buttons and other controls that expose group information. (#3754)
- In accessible Java applications, keyboard shortcuts are now announced for controls that have them. (#3881)
- In browse mode, labels on landmarks are now reported. They are also included in the Elements List dialog. (#1195)
- In browse mode, labelled regions are now treated as landmarks. (#3741)
- In Internet Explorer documents and applications, Live Regions (part of the W3c ARIA standard) are now supported, thus allowing web authors to mark particular content to be automatically spoken as it changes. (#1846)


== Changes ==
- When exiting a dialog or application within a browse mode document, the browse mode document's name and type is no longer announced. (#4069)


== Bug Fixes ==
- The standard Windows System menu is no longer accidentally silenced in Java applications. (#3882)
- When copying text from screen review, line breaks are no longer ignored. (#3900)
- Pointless whitespace objects are no longer reported in some applications when the focus changes or when using object navigation with simple review enabled. (#3839)
- Message boxes and other dialogs produced by NVDA again cause previous speech to be canceled before announcing the dialog.
- In browse mode, the labels of controls such as links and buttons are now rendered correctly where the label has been overridden by the author for accessibility purposes (specifically, using aria-label or aria-labelledby). (#1354)
- In Browse mode in Internet Explorer, text contained within an element marked as presentational (ARIA role="presentation") is no longer inappropriately ignored. (#4031)
- It is now again possible to type Vietnamese text using the Unikey software. To do this, uncheck the new Handle keys from other applications checkbox in NVDA's Keyboard settings dialog. (#4043)
- In browse mode, radio and check menu items are reported as controls instead of just clickable text. (#4092)
- NVDA no longer incorrectly switches from focus mode to browse mode when a radio or check menu item is focused. (#4092)
- In Microsoft PowerPoint with speaking of typed words enabled, characters erased with backspace are no longer announced as part of the typed word. (#3231)
- In Microsoft Office 2010 Options dialogs, the labels of combo boxes are reported correctly. (#4056)
- In browse mode in Mozilla applications, using quick navigation commands to move to the next or previous button or form field now includes toggle buttons as expected. (#4098)
- The content of alerts in Mozilla applications is no longer reported twice. (#3481)
- In browse mode, containers and landmarks are no longer inappropriately repeated while navigating within them at the same time as page content is changing (e.g. navigating the Facebook and Twitter websites). (#2199)
- NVDA recovers in more cases when switching away from applications that stop responding. (#3825)
- The caret (insertion point) again correctly updates when doing a sayAll command while in editable text drawn directly to the screen. (#4125)


= 2014.1 =

== New Features ==
- Support for Microsoft PowerPoint 2013. Note that protected view is not supported. (#3578)
- In Microsoft word and Excel, NVDA can now read the selected symbol when choosing symbols using the Insert Symbols dialog. (#3538)
- It is now possible to choose if content in documents should be identified as clickable via a new option in the Document Formatting settings dialog. This option is on by default in accordance with the previous behavior. (#3556)
- Support for braille displays connected via Bluetooth on a computer running the Widcomm Bluetooth Software. (#2418)
- When editing text in PowerPoint, hyperlinks are now reported. (#3416)
- When in ARIA applications or dialogs on the web, it is now possible to force NVDA to switch to browse mode with NVDA+space allowing document-style navigation of the application or dialog. (#2023)
- In Outlook Express / Windows Mail / Windows Live Mail, NVDA now reports if a message has an attachment or is flagged. (#1594)
- When navigating tables in accessible Java applications, row and column coordinates are now reported, including  column and  row headers if they exist. (#3756)


== Changes ==
- For Papenmeier braille displays, the move to flat review/focus command has been removed. Users can assign their own keys using the Input Gestures dialog. (#3652)
- NVDA now relies  on the Microsoft VC runtime version 11, which means it can no longer be run on Operating systems older than Windows XP Service Pack 2 or Windows Server 2003 Service Pack 1.
- Punctuation level Some will now speak star (*) and plus (+) characters. (#3614)
- Upgraded eSpeak to version 1.48.04 which includes many language fixes and fixes several crashes. (#3842, #3739, #3860)


== Bug Fixes ==
- When moving around or selecting cells in Microsoft Excel, NVDA should no longer inappropriately announce the old cell rather than the new cell when Microsoft Excel is slow to move the selection. (#3558)
- NVDA properly handles opening a dropdown list for a cell in Microsoft Excel via the context menu. (#3586)
- New page content in iTunes 11 store pages is now shown properly in browse mode when following a link in the store or when opening the store initially. (#3625)
- Buttons for previewing songs in the iTunes 11 store now show their label in browse mode. (#3638)
- In browse mode in Google Chrome, the labels of check boxes and radio buttons are now rendered correctly. (#1562)
- In Instantbird, NVDA no longer reports useless information every time you move to a contact in the Contacts list. (#2667)
- In browse mode in Adobe Reader, the correct text is now rendered for buttons, etc. where the label has been overridden using a tooltip or other means. (#3640)
- In browse mode in Adobe Reader, extraneous graphics containing the text "mc-ref" will no longer be rendered. (#3645)
- NVDA no longer reports all cells in Microsoft Excel as underlined in their formatting information. (#3669)
- No longer show meaningless characters in browse mode documents such as those found in the Unicode private usage range. In some cases these were stopping more useful labels from being shown. (#2963)
- Input composition for entering east-asian characters no longer fails in PuTTY. (#3432)
- Navigating in a document after a canceled say all no longer results in NVDA sometimes incorrectly announcing that you have left a field (such as a table) lower in the document that the say all never actually spoke. (#3688)
- When using browse mode quick navigation commands  while in say all with skim reading enabled, NVDA more accurately announces the new field; e.g. it now says a heading is a heading, rather than just its text. (#3689)
- The jump to end or start of container quick navigation commands now honor the skim reading during say all setting; i.e. they will no longer cancel the current say all. (#3675)
- Touch gesture names listed in NVDA's Input Gestures dialog are now friendly and localized. (#3624)
- NVDA no longer causes certain programs to crash when moving the mouse over their rich edit (TRichEdit) controls. Programs include Jarte 5.1 and BRfácil. (#3693, #3603, #3581)
- In Internet Explorer and other MSHTML controls, containers such as tables marked as presentation by ARIA are no longer reported to the user. (#3713)
- in Microsoft Word, NVDA no longer inappropriately repeats table row and column information for a cell on a braille display multiple times. (#3702)
- In languages which use a space as a digit group/thousands separator such as French and German, numbers from separate chunks of text are no longer pronounced as a single number. This was particularly problematic for table cells containing numbers. (#3698)
- Braille no longer sometimes fails to update when the system caret is moved in Microsoft Word 2013. (#3784)
- When positioned on the first character of a heading in Microsoft Word, the text communicating it is a heading (including the level) no longer disappears off a braille display. (#3701)
- When a configuration profile is triggered for an application and that application is exited, NVDA no longer sometimes fails to deactivate the profile. (#3732)
- When entering Asian input into a control within NVDA itself (e.g. the browse mode Find dialog), "NVDA" is no longer incorrectly reported in place of the candidate. (#3726)
- The tabs in the Outlook 2013 options dialog are now reported. (#3826)
- Improved support for ARIA live regions in Firefox and other Mozilla Gecko applications:
 - Support for aria-atomic updates and filtering of aria-busy updates. (#2640)
 - Alternative text (such as alt attribute or aria-label) is included if there is no other useful text. (#3329)
 - Live region updates are no longer silenced if they occur at the same time as the focus moves. (#3777)
- Certain presentation elements in Firefox and other Mozilla Gecko applications are no longer inappropriately shown in browse mode (specifically, when the element is marked with aria-presentation but it is also focusable). (#3781)
- A performance improvement when navigating a document in Microsoft Word with spelling errors enabled. (#3785)
- Several fixes to the support for accessible Java applications:
 - The initially focused control in a frame or dialog no longer fails to be reported when the frame or dialog comes to the foreground. (#3753)
 - Unuseful position information is no longer announced for radio buttons (e.g. 1 of 1). (#3754)
 - Better reporting of JComboBox controls (html no longer reported, better reporting of expanded and collapsed states). (#3755)
 - When reporting the text of dialogs, some text that was previously missing is now included. (#3757)
 - Changes to the name, value or description of the focused control is now reported more accurately. (#3770)
- Fix a crash in NVDA seen in Windows 8 when focusing on certain RichEdit controls containing large amounts of text (e.g. NVDA's log viewer, windbg). (#3867)
- On systems with a high DPI display setting (which occurs by default for many modern screens), NVDA no longer routes the mouse to the wrong location in some applications. (#3758, #3703)
- Fixed an occasional problem when browsing the web where NVDA would stop working correctly until restarted, even though it didn't crash or freeze. (#3804)
- A Papenmeier braille display can now be used even if a Papenmeier display has never been connected via USB. (#3712)
- NVDA no longer freezes when the Papenmeier BRAILLEX older models braille display is selected without a display connected.


== Changes for Developers ==
- AppModules now contain productName and productVersion properties. This info is also now included in Developer Info (NVDA+f1). (#1625)
- In the Python Console, you can now press the tab key to complete the current identifier. (#433)
 - If there are multiple possibilities, you can press tab a second time to choose from a list.


