NVDA 변경된 사항


%!includeconf: ../changes.t2tconf

= 2012.3 (한글판: 2012.3K) =
이번 버전의 주 기능들: 아시아 글자 입력 기능; 윈도우 8에서의 기초적인 터치스크린 탐색 지원; 마이크로소프트 엑셀에서의 행 및 열 제목 설정 기능; 여러 점자 디스플레이 지원 추가 등입니다.

== 새로 추가된 기능들 ==
- IME와 TSF를 이용한 아시아 글자 입력 기능:
 - 후보자 알림 및 탐색
 - 입력 글쇠 알림 및 탐색
 - 읽기 문자열 알림
- 어도비 문서에서 및줄 및 스트라이크 문자 알림 가능 (#2410)
- 스티키 키 작동시 NVDA 기능키도 스티키 키로 취급하도록 설정 가능 (#230)
- Automatic reporting of column and row headers is now supported in Microsoft Excel. Press NVDA+shift+c to set the row containing column headers and NVDA+shift+r to set the column containing row headers. Press either command twice in quick succession to clear the setting. (#1519)
- 힘스 한소네, 브레일 에지 및 싱크브레일 지원 추가 (#1266, #1267)
- 윈도우 8에서 만약 도움말 알림이 설정되었다면 토스트 알림창 읽기 가능 (#2143)
- 윈도우 8에서의 기초적인 터치스크린 탐색 기능 추가:
 - 손가락이 위치한 곳의 문자열 읽기
 - 터치 명령으로 객체 탐색, 텍스트 읽기 및 여러 다른 명령 사용 가능
- VIP Mud 지원 추가 (#1728)
- In Adobe Reader, if a table has a summary, it is now presented. (#2465)
- 어도비 리더에서 테이블 행과 열에 머릿말이 있는 경우 머릿말을 알릴 수 있음 (#2193, #2527, #2528)
- NvDA 번역본: 네팔어, 에디오피아어, 한국어 추가
- 마이크로소프트 아우틀룩 2007에서 이메일 주소 입력시 자동 끝내기 알림 추가 (#689)
- 새 이스피크 보이스: Gene, Gene2. (#2512)
- 어도비 리더에서 쪽수 알림 가능 (#2534)
- It is now possible to reset NVDA's configuration to factory defaults either by pressing NVDA+control+r three times quickly or by choosing Reset to Factory Defaults from the NVDA menu. (#2086)
- 니판텔레소프트 Seika 3, 4와 5 및 Seika80 디스플레이 지원 추가 (#2452)
- The first and last top routing buttons on Freedom Scientific PAC Mate and Focus Braille displays can now be used to scroll  backward and forward. (#2556)
- Many more features are supported on Freedom Scientific Focus Braille displays such as advance bars, rocker bars and certain dot combinations for common actions. (#2516)
- In applications using IAccessible2 such as Mozilla applications, table row and column headers can now be reported outside of browse mode. (#926)
- Preliminary support for the document control in Microsoft Word 2013. (#2543)
- Text alignment can now be reported in applications using IAccessible2 such as Mozilla applications. (#2612)
- When a table row or standard Windows list-view control with multiple columns is focused, you can now use the table navigation commands to access individual cells. (#828)
- New braille translation tables: Estonian grade 0, Portuguese 8 dot computer braille, Italian 6 dot computer braille. (#2319, #2662)
- If NVDA is installed on the system, directly opening an NVDA add-on package (e.g. from Windows Explorer or after downloading in a web browser) will install it into NVDA. (#2306)
- Support for newer models of Papenmeier BRAILLEX braille displays. (#1265)
- Position information (e.g. 1 of 4) is now reported for Windows Explorer list items on Windows 7 and above. This also includes any UIAutomation controls that support the itemIndex and itemCount custom properties. (#2643)


== 변경 사항들 ==
- In the NVDA Review Cursor preferences dialog, the Follow keyboard focus option has been renamed to Follow system focus for consistency with terminology used elsewhere in NVDA.
- When braille is tethered to review and the cursor is on an object which is not a text object (e.g. an editable text field), cursor routing keys will now activate the object. (#2386)
- The Save Settings On Exit option is now on by default for new configurations.
- When updating a previously installed copy of NVDA, the desktop shortcut key is no longer forced back to control+alt+n if it was manually changed to something different by the user. (#2572)
- The add-ons list in the Add-ons Manager now shows the package name before its status. (#2548)
- If installing the same or another version of a currently installed add-on, NVDA will ask if you wish to update the add-on, rather than just showing an error and aborting installation. (#2501)
- Object navigation commands (except the report current object command) now report with less verbosity. You can still obtain the extra information by using the report current object command. (#2560)
- Updated liblouis braille translator to 2.5.1. (#2319, #2480, #2662, #2672)
- The NVDA Key Commands Quick Reference document has been renamed to Commands Quick Reference, as it now includes touch commands as well as keyboard commands.
- The Elements list in Browse mode will now remember the last element type shown (e.g. links, headings or landmarks) each time the dialog is shown within the same session of NVDA. (#365)


== 버그 수정 ==
- In Windows Vista and later, NVDA no longer incorrectly treats the Windows key as being held down when unlocking Windows after locking it by pressing Windows+l. (#1856)
- In Adobe Reader, row headers are now correctly recognised as table cells; i.e. coordinates are reported and they can be accessed using table navigation commands. (#2444)
- In Adobe Reader, table cells spanning more than one column and/or row are now handled correctly. (#2437, #2438, #2450)
- The NVDA distribution package now checks its integrity before executing. (#2475)
- Temporary download files are now removed if downloading of an NVDA update fails. (#2477)
- When copying the user configuration to the system configuration (for use on Windows logon and other secure screens) NVDA will no longer freeze on XP while doing so. (#2485)
- Tiles on the Windows 8 Start Screen are now presented better in speech and braille. The name is no longer repeated, unselected is no longer reported on all tiles, and live status information is presented  as the description of the tile (e.g. current temperature for the Weather tile).
- Passwords are no longer announced when reading password fields in Microsoft Outlook and other standard edit controls that are marked as protected. (#2021)
- In Adobe Reader, changes to form fields are now correctly reflected in browse mode. (#2529)
- Improvements to support for the Microsoft Word Spell Checker, including more accurate reading of the current spelling error, and the ability to support the spell checker when running an Installed copy of NVDA on Windows Vista or higher.
- Add-ons which include files containing non-English characters can now be installed correctly in most cases. (#2505)
- In Adobe Reader, the language of text is no longer lost when it is updated or scrolled to. (#2544)
- When installing an add-on, the confirmation dialog now correctly shows the localized name of the add-on if available. (#2422)
- In applications using UI Automation (such as .net and Silverlight applications), the calculation of numeric values for controls such as sliders has been corrected. (#2417)
- The configuration for reporting of progress bars is now honoured for the indeterminate progress bars displayed by NVDA when installing, creating a portable copy, etc. (#2574)
- NVDA commands can no longer be executed from a braille display while a secure Windows screen (such as the Lock screen) is active. (#2449)
- In browse mode, braille is now updated if the text being displayed changes. (#2074)
- When on a secure Windows screen such as the Lock screen, messages from applications speaking or displaying braille directly via NVDA are now ignored.
- In Browse mode, it is no longer possible to  fall off the bottom of the document with the right arrow key when on the final character, or by jumping to the end of a container when that container is the last item in the document. (#2463)
- Extraneous content is no longer incorrectly included when reporting the text of dialogs in web applications (specifically, ARIA dialogs with no aria-describedby attribute). (#2390)
- NVDA no longer incorrectly reports or locates certain edit fields in MSHTML documents (e.g. Internet Explorer), specifically where an explicit ARIA role has been used by the web page author. (#2435)
- The backspace key is now handled correctly when speaking typed words in Windows command consoles. (#2586)
- Cell coordinates in Microsoft Excel are now shown again in Braille.
- In Microsoft Word, NVDA no longer leaves you stuck on a paragraph with list formatting when trying to navigate out over a bullet or number with left arrow or control + left arrow. (#2402)
- In browse mode in Mozilla applications, the items in certain list boxes (specifically, ARIA list boxes) are no longer incorrectly rendered.
- In web browsers, NVDA now hides content which is marked as hidden from screen readers (specifically, using the aria-hidden attribute). (#2117)
- Negative currency amounts (e.g. -$123) are now correctly spoken as negative, regardless of symbol level. (#2625)
- During say all, NVDA will no longer incorrectly revert to the default language where a line does not end a sentence. (#2630)
- Font information is now correctly detected in Adobe Reader 10.1 and later. (#2175)
- In Adobe Reader, if alternate text is provided, only that text will be rendered. Previously, extraneous text was sometimes included. (#2174)
- Where a document contains an application, the content of the application is no longer included in browse mode. This prevents unexpectedly moving inside the application when navigating. You can interact with the application in the same way as for embedded objects. (#990)
- In Mozilla applications, the value of spin buttons is now correctly reported when it changes. (#2653)
- Updated support for Adobe Digital Editions so that it works in version 2.0. (#2688)
- Pressing NVDA+upArrow while on a combo box in Internet Explorer and other MSHTML documents will no longer incorrectly read all items. Rather, just the active item will be read. (#2337)
- Speech dictionaries will now properly save when using a number (#) sign within the pattern or replacement fields. (#961)
- Browse mode for MSHTML documents (e.g. Internet Explorer) now correctly displays visible content contained within hidden content (specifically, elements with a style of visibility:visible inside an element with style visibility:hidden). (#2097)
- Links in Windows XP's Security Center no longer report random junk after their names. (#1331)
- UI Automation text controls (e.g.  the search field in the Windows 7 Start Menu) are now  correctly announced when moving the mouse over them rather than staying silent.
- Keyboard layout changes are no longer reported during say all, which was particularly problematic for multilingual documents including Arabic text. (#1676)
- The entire content of some UI Automation editable text controls (e.g. the Search Box in the Windows 7/8 Start Menu) is no longer announced every time it changes.
- When moving between groups on the Windows 8 start screen, the first tile's name will no longer be reported as the group's name, which can speed up navigation. (#2658)
- When opening the Windows 8 start screen, the focus is correctly placed on the first tile, rather than jumping to the root of the start screen which can confuse navigation. (#2720)


== 개발자를 위한 내용 ==
개발자를 위한 내용에 대해서는 영어판 changes.html 문서를 참조하세요.


= 이전 버전 =
2012.3 이전 버전에서의 변경된 사항에 대해서는 영어판 changes.html 파일을 참고하시기 바랍니다.

