NVDA NVDA_VERSION 사용설명서


%!includeconf: ../userGuide.t2tconf
%kc:title: NVDA NVDA_VERSION 기능키 도움말

= 차례 =[toc]
%%toc

+ 머리말 +
NVDA(NonVisual Desktop Access)는 마이크로소프트 윈도우즈용 무료/오픈소스 스크린 리더입니다.
NVDA는 합성 음성과 점자를 통해 정보를 제공하기 때문에 시각장애인들이 정안인들보다 더 많은 비용 지출 없이도 윈도우즈가 동작하는 컴퓨터를 사용할 수 있게 합니다.
NVDA는 커뮤니티의 후원을 받으며 [NV Access http://www.nvaccess.org/]에 의해 개발됩니다.

++ 일반적인 특징 ++
시각장애인들은 NVDA를 통해 윈도우즈 운영체계 및 그 밖의 다양한 애플리케이션을 사용할 수 있습니다.

주요 특징:
- 웹 브라우져, 이메일 클라이언트, 인터넷 채팅 프로그램 및 오피스 관련 프로그램 등을 포함한 대중적인 애플리케이션을 지원
- 43개국 언어 이상의 내장 음성엔진 지원
- 가능한 경우 폰트 이름과 크기, 스타일, 맞춤법 오류와 같은 서식 정보를 알림
- 마우스가 위치한 곳의 글자와 들을 수 있는 부가적인 지시를 자동으로 읽기
- 다양한 점자 디스플레이 지원
- 인스톨 없이 USB 스틱이나 다른 휴대용 미디어에서 NVDA를 완벽하게 실행 가능
- 말하는 인스톨 프로그램을 사용하는 편이성
- 40개국 언어로 번역
- 32비트 및 64비트 모두 최신 윈도우즈 운영체계를 지원
- 윈도우즈 로그온과 다른 보안 스크린에서 실행 가능
- 일반적인 접근성 인터페이스 지원 예: Microsoft Active Accessibility, Java Access Bridge, IAccessible2, UI 오토메이션(UI 오토메이션은 윈도우즈7 이상에서만 지원)
- 윈도우즈 명령 프롬프트와 콘솔 애플리케이션 지원
-

++ 국제화 ++
중요한 것은 세계 어느 곳에 사는 사람이라도 사용하는 언어와 관계없이 기술에 대한 접근이 평등해야 하는 것입니다.
NVDA는 현재 영어 외에 다음 언어들로 번역되어 출시되고 있습니다: 갈리시아어, 그리스어, 그루지아어, 네덜란드어, 네팔어, 노르웨이어, 덴마크어, 독일어, 러시아어, 루마니아어, 베트남어, 불가리아어, 세르비아어, 슬로바키아어, 스웨덴어, 스페인어, 아이슬란드어, 아라비아어, 알바니아어, 아프리카어, 에디오피아어, 우크라이나어, 이탈리아어, 일본어, 중국어 (간체 및 번체), 체코어, 크로아티아어, 타밀어, 태국어, 터키어, 폴란드어, 포루투갈어 (브라질), 포루투갈어 (포루투갈), 프랑스어, 필란드어, 한국어, 헝가리어, 헤브라이어, 힌디어 등 40가지 언어를 지원합니다.

++ 음성 엔진 지원 ++
메세지와 인터페이스를 여러 가지 언어로 제공하는 것 이외에, NVDA는 유저들이 가지고 있는 음성 엔진에 따라서 컨텐츠를 어떠한 언어로도 읽을 수 있게 합니다.

NVDA는 무료/오픈소스 다국어 음성 엔진인 [eSpeak http://espeak.sourceforge.net/]를 내장하고 있습니다.

eSpeak 이외에 NVDA가 지원하는 다른 음성 엔진의 정보를 얻으려면 [지원하는 음성 엔진 #SupportedSpeechSynths] 섹션을 참고하세요.

++ 점자 디스플레이 지원 ++
점자 디스플레이를 가지고 있다면 NVDA는 점자 디스플레이로 정보를 출력할 수 있습니다.
지원하는 점자 디스플레이 정보는 [지원하는 점자 디스플레이 #SupportedBrailleDisplays] 섹션을 참조하세요.

NVDA는 약자 및 정자를 포함하는 점자 코드와 컴퓨터 점자 코드를 다양한 언어로 지원하고 있습니다.

++ 라이센스와 저작권 ++
NVDA is copyright NVDA_COPYRIGHT_YEARS NVDA contributors.

NVDA는 GNU General Public License(Version 2)를 따릅니다.
이 라이센스를 동반하고 모든 소스 코드를 원하는 사람에게 이용 가능하도록 허용한다면 누구든지 NVDA를 자유롭게 배포하거나 원하는 방식으로 프로그램을 변경할 수 있습니다.
이 규정은 NVDA의 원본과 수정본 및 모든 파생물에 적용됩니다.
더 상세한 정보는 [전체 라이센스를 참조하세요. http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.html]

+ 시스템 요구사항 +
- 운영체제: 윈도우 XP/비스타/7 32비트 또는 64비트 (윈도우 서버 운영체제도 지원)
- 메모리 용량: 256 MB 이상
- 프로세서 속도: 1.0 GHz 이상
- 약 50 MB의 설치공간
-

+ NVDA 다운로드 및 설치 +
아직 NVDA를 갖고 있지 않으시면 [www.nvda-project.org NVDA_URL]에서 다운 받으실 .수 있습니다.

다운로드 섹션으로 가시면 최신 버전의 NVDA 다운로드 링크를 찾을 수 있습니다.

다운로드 받은 파일을 실행하면 NVDA가 임시 버전으로 시작됩니다.
그리고 나서  NVDA를 설치할 것인지 아니면 휴대용 버전을 만들 것인지 그렇지 않으면 단지 임시 버전만을 사용할 것인지 질문을 받게 됩니다.

만약 이 컴퓨터에서 항상 NVDA를 사용할 예정이라면 'NVDA  설치'를 선택하는 것이 좋습니다.
NVDA를 설치하면 부가적인 기능을 사용할 수 있습니다. 예를 들면 로그온 이후에 자동으로 NVDA 시작하기, 윈도우즈 로그온 화면과 윈도우즈 보안 화면 읽기 가능(휴대용 버전이나 임시 버전에서는 불가능합니다), 시작메뉴 및 바탕화면 아이콘 생성 등입니다.
설치 버전은 언제든지 자체로 휴대용 버전을 만들 수도 있습니다.

만약 NVDA를 USB 드라이브나 다른 쓰기 가능한 미디어에 넣으려 한다면 '휴대용 버전 만들기'를 선택해야 합니다.
휴대용 버전 역시 언제든지 어떠한 컴퓨터든지 자체로 NVDA를 설치할 수 있는 기능이 있습니다.
그러나 NVDA를 CD 같은 읽기전용 미디어에 복사하려고 한다면, 다운로드 패키지만을 복사해야 합니다.
읽기전용 미디어에서 포터블 버전을 곧바로 실행하는 것은 지원하지 않습니다.

NVDA를 임시 버전으로 사용하는 것도 한가지 선택사항이긴 합니다. (예를 들면 전시를 목적으로 할 때) 그러나 이 방식으로 NVDA를 시작하려 한다면 매번 NVDA를 실행할 때마다 매우 긴 시간이 소비될 것입니다.

++ NVDA 설치하기 ++
만약 다운로드 패키지에서 곧바로 NVDA를 설치하려면, 'NVDA 설치' 버튼을 누르세요.
만약 이 대화상자를 이미 닫았거나 혹은 휴대용 버전에서 NVDA를 설치하려면 NVDA 메뉴 - 도구 - NVDA 설치 메뉴 항목을 선택하세요.

대화상자가 나타나면서 NVDA를 정말로 설치할 것인지를 확인하고 또한 지금의 설치가 기존의 설치를 업데이트하는 것인지 아닌지를 알려 줍니다.
'Continue(계속)' 버튼을 누르면 NVDa를 설치하기 시작합니다.
이 대화상자에는 차후에 설명될 몇가지 옵션이 있습니다.
설치가 완료되면 설치가 성공했습니다'라는 메시지가 나타날 것입니다.
여기에서 'Ok' 버튼을 누르면 새롭게 설치된 NVDA 설치 버전이 재시작합니다.

+++ 윈도우즈 로그온에서 시작하기 +++
이 옵션을 선택하면 윈도우즈 로그온 화면에서 패스워드를 입력하기 전에 NVDA가 자동으로 시작합니다.
또한 이 옵션은 사용자 계정 컨트롤(UAC)와 다른 안전 화면을 포함합니다.

+++ 바탕화면 바로가기 아이콘 및 단축키(컨트롤+알트+n) 만들기 +++
이 옵션을 선택하면 NVDA를 실행시키는 바로가기 아이콘을 바탕화면에 만들 수 있습니다.
만약 바탕화면 아이콘을 만들었다면 이 아이콘은 단축키 control+alt+n을 할당받습니다. 언제든지 이 단축키를 누르면 NVDA를 시작할 수 있습니다.

+++ 휴대용 버전의 환경 설정을 현재 사용자 계정으로 복사하기 +++
이 옵션을 선택하면 현재 실행 중인 NVDA의 사용자 환경 설정을 NVDA 설치 버전의 설정으로 쓰기 위하여 현재 로그온한 사용자 계정에 복사합니다.
이 옵션은 이 시스템의 다른 사용자의 환경 설정을 복사하지도 않고 윈도우즈 로그온 및 다른 안전 화면용 시스템 환경 설정으로 복사하지도 않습니다.
이 옵션은 휴대용 버전에서 설치할 때에만 유효할 뿐이며 다운로드 패키지에서 직접 설치할 때에는 유효하지 않습니다.

++ 휴대용 버전 만들기 ++
만약 다운로드 패키지에서 곧바로 휴대용 버전을 만들고자 한다면 간단하게 '휴대용 버전 만들기' 버튼을 누르세요.
만약 이미 이 대화상자를 닫아 버렸거나 NVDA 설치 버전을 실행 중이라면 NVDA 메뉴 - 도구 - 휴대용 버전 만들기 메뉴 항목을 선택하세요.

대화상자가 나타나면 휴대용 버전이 들어갈 장소를 지정할 수 있습니다.
이 장소는 하드디스크의 디렉토리일 수도 있고 USB 드라이브일 수도 있고 또다른 포터블 미디어일 수 있습니다.
물론 로그온된 사용자의 현재 NVDA 환경 설정을 새롭게 만들어지는 휴대용 버전으로 복사할 수 있는 옵션도 있습니다.
이 옵션은 설치 버전에서 휴대용 버전을 제작하는 경우에만 유효할 뿐이며 다운로드 패키지에서 휴대용 버전을 만드는 경우에는 유효하지 않습니다.
'Continue(계속)' 버튼을 누르시면 휴대용 버전이 만들어 집니다.
휴대용 버전 만들기가 완료되면 휴대용 버전 만들기가 성공하였다는 메시지가 나타납니다.
'Ok'를 누르면 이 대화상자가 사라집니다.

+ NVDA 시작하기 +

++ NVDA 실행하기 ++
NVDA를 인스톨러로 설치한 경우 control+alt+n을 누르거나 그렇지 않으면 시작 메뉴 - 프로그램  - NVDA 메뉴 - NVDA를 선택하면 간단히 NVDA가 실행됩니다.
그밖에 실행 대화상자(윈도우키+R)에서 nvda를 입력하고 엔터키를 눌러도 됩니다.

휴대용 버전에서 NVDA를 실행하려면 NVDA를 풀어 놓았던 디렉토리로 이동한 후 nvda.exe에서 엔터키를 누르거나 더블 클릭합니다.

NVDA가 시작하자마자 맨처음에 점차 높은 음으로 띠리링 소리가 들립니다(그리고 나서 "NVDA가 로딩 중입니다"라고 알려줍니다).
컴퓨터가 얼마나 빠른지, 혹은 NVDA를 USB 메모리에서 실행하는지 아니면 더 느린 미디어에서 실행하는지에 따라서 NVDA를 시작하는 데 걸리는 시간이 다릅니다.
만약 NVDA의 시작에 제법 긴 시간이 걸린다면 NVDA는 반드시 "NVDA를 로딩 중입니다. 기다려 주세요"라고 말합니다.

이러한 소리가 들리지 않거나 윈도우즈 에러 사운드가 들리거나 점차 낮은 음으로 띠리링하는 소리가 들리는 경우 이는 NVDA에 오류가 있다는 의미이며, 개발자에게 버그를 신고할 필요가 있다고 생각하실 수 있습니다. 이럴 때 어떻게 해야 하는지는 NVDA 웹사이트를 참조해 주세요.

NVDA를 최초로 실행하면 NVDA 기능키와 NVDA 메뉴에 관한 몇가지 기초적인 정보를 제공하는 대화상자가 여러분을 환영할 것입니다.
(이 topic들에 관한 아래의 섹션을 참고해 주세요.)
또한 이 대화상자는 두 개의 체크박스를 포함합니다.
첫 번째 체크박스를 체크하면 capslock 키를 NVDA 기능키로 사용할 수 있게 되고, 두 번째 체크박스를 체크하면 NVDA가 실행될 때마다 바로 이 환영 대화상자가 나타나게 됩니다.

++ NVDA 단축키에 관하여 ++

+++ The NVDA 키 +++
NVDA-specific 단축키는 대부분 NVDA 키라 불리는 특정한 키와 하나 이상의 다른 키의 조합으로 구성됩니다.
여기에서 예외는 numpad키만을 단독으로 이용하는 텍스트 리뷰 단축키입니다.

NVDA는 numpad 인서트키나 확장 인서트키 혹은 capslock키를 NVDA키로 사용할 수 있도록 설정될 수 있습니다.

초기값으로 numpad 인서트키와 확장 인서트키 모두 NVDA키로 설정되어 있습니다.

만약 NVDA키 중 하나를 원래의 키로 동작시키려 한다면, (예를 들어 capslock키를 NVDA키로 설정한 상태에서 capslock키를 on으로 켜려고 하는 경우) 그 키를 연속하여 재빨리 두차례 누르세요.

+++ 입력 도움말 모드 +++
많은 단축키들은 이 사용자 안내서의 나머지 부분에서 설명되겠지만 다양한 단축키 전부를 탐색할 수 있는 간단한 방법은 입력 도움말을 켜는 것입니다.

입력 도움말을 켜려면 NVDA+1을 누릅니다.
입력 도움말을 끄려면 NVDA+1을 한번 더 누르세요.
입력 도움말이 켜 있는 동안 어떤 키를 누르면 (그 키가 정말로 어떠한 기능을 갖고 있다면) 그 키의 기능을 알려 줍니다.
입력 도움말 모드가 켜져 있는 동안 눌러지는 키들은 실제로 그 기능을 수행하지 않습니다. 그래서 당신이 원하는 키라면 어떤 키라도 눌러 보실 수 있습니다.

+++ 키보드 레이아웃 +++
NVDA는 일반적으로 두 가지 단축키 세트를 가지고 있습니다.
두 가지는 데스크탑 레이아웃과 랩탑 레이아웃입니다.
NVDA는 초기값으로 데스크탑 레이아웃을 사용할 수 있도록 설정되어 있지만 NVDA 메뉴 - 설정 - 키보드 설정에서 랩탑 레이아웃으로 전환 가능합니다.

데스크탑 레이아웃은 (numlock 오프 상태에서) numpad 키들을 빈번하게 사용합니다.
대부분의 랩탑은 물리적인 numpad를 갖고 있지 않지만 일부 랩탑은 Fn키를 누르고 있는 상태에서 키보드의 오른손 부분의 글자와 숫자키를 누름으로써 (예를 들어 (7 8 9 u i o j k l 등) numpad를 모방할 수 있습니다.
만약 여러분이 가진 랩탑이 이렇게 할 수 없거나 numlock를 오프할 수 없다면 그 대신에 랩탑 레이아웃으로 전환해도 좋을 것입니다.

++ The NVDA 메뉴 ++
NVDA 메뉴는 설정을 제어하고, 도움말을 액세스하고, 환경 설정을 저장하거나 되돌리고, 발음 사전을 수정하고, 부가적인 도구를 액세스하고 NVDA를 종료할 수 있습니다.

NVDA가 실행되고 있는 동안 윈도우즈의 어느 곳에서든 NVDA 메뉴를 불러내고자 한다면 NVDA+N을 누르세요.
여러분은 윈도우즈 시스템 트레이를 통해서도 NVDA 메뉴를 불러 낼 수 있습니다.
시스템 트레이에 위치한 NVDA 아이콘을 오른쪽 클릭하거나 아니면 윈도우즈키+B를 눌러서 시스템 트레이에 액세스하고 NVDA 아이콘까지 아래 방향키를 누르고 나서 대부분의 키보드에서 오른쪽 control키 바로 옆에 있는 애플리케이션 키를 누르면 됩니다.
NVDA 메뉴가 열리면 방향키를 이용하여 메뉴를 탐색할 수 있고 엔터키를 눌러서 메뉴 항목을 활성화할 수 있습니다.

++ 기본 단축키 ++
%kc:beginInclude
| 이름 | 단축키 | 설명 |
| 음성출력 정지 | 컨트롤 | 음성출력을 즉시 정지합니다. |
| 음성출력 일시정지 | 쉬프트 | 음성출력을 일시정지 합니다. 다시한번 키를 누르면 남은 부분부터 출력합니다.(현재 음성엔진이 지원 해야합니다.) |
| NVDA 매뉴 | NVDA+n | 설정 , 도구 및 도움말 매뉴에 엑세스할 수 있도록 NVDA 매뉴를 활성화 합니다. |
| 음성출력 모드의 전환 | NVDA+s | 음성출력 모드를 말하기, 경고음 또는 오프로 전환합니다. |
| 키보드 도움말 모드의 전환 | NVDA+1 | 만약 이 모드에서 어떤 키를 누른다면 NVDA는 그 키를 읽어줍니다. 만약 입력된 키가 nvda 명령어라면 누른 키에관한 설명을 알려줍니다. |
| NVDA 종료 | NVDA+q | NVDA를 종료합니다. |
| NVDA 키 무시 | NVDA+f2 | 다음에 입력될 키가 NVDA 단축키라 할지라도 NVDA는 이 키를 무시하고 활성화된 응용프로그램에게 넘겨줍니다. |
| 어플리케이션 슬립모드 온/오프 전환 | NVDA+shift+s | 슬립모드는 현재 응용프로그램 창에서 모든 NVDA 명령어와 음성출력/점자 디스플레이 출력을 비활성화 합니다. 이 기능은 음성출력이나 화면읽기 기능을 제공하는 프로그램에서 유용합니다. 이 키를 다시 누르면 셀프보이스가 비활성화 됩니다. |
%kc:endInclude

++ 시스탬 정보 알림 ++
%kc:beginInclude
| 이름 | 단축키 | 설명 |
| 날자와 시각 확인 | NVDA+f12 | 한번 누르면 현재의 시각을 알려주고, 두번 누르면 현재의 날짜를 알려줍니다. |
| 배터리 상태 확인 | NVDA+shift+b | 현재 배터리 상태를 알려줍니다. ac전원을 사용중이면 ac전원의 사용여부를, 배터리를 사용중이면 현재 충전 퍼센트를 알려줍니다. |
| 클립보드의 텍스트 확인 | NVDA+c | 클립보드안의 내용을 확인합니다. |
%kc:endInclude

+ Navigating with NVDA +
NVDA allows you to explore and navigate the system in several ways, including both normal interaction and review.

++ Objects ++[Objects]
Each Application and the operating system itself consist of many objects.
An object is a single item such as a piece of text, button, checkbox, slider, list or editable text field.

++ Navigating with the System Focus ++[SystemFocus]
The system focus, also known simply as the focus, is the [object #Objects] which receives keys typed on the keyboard.
For example, if you are typing into an editable text field, the editable text field has the focus.

The Most common way of navigating around Windows with NVDA is to simply move the system focus using standard Windows keyboard commands, such as pressing tab and shift+tab to move forward and back between controls, pressing alt to get to the menu bar and then using the arrows to navigate menus, and using alt+tab to move between running applications.
As you do this, NVDA will report information about the object with focus, such as its name, type, value, state, description, keyboard shortcut and positional information.

There are some key commands that are useful when moving with the System focus:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | key | Description |
| Report current focus | NVDA+tab | announces the current object or control that has the System focus. Pressing twice will spell the information |
| Report title | NVDA+t | Reports the title of the currently active window. Pressing twice will spell the information. Pressing three times will copy it to the clipboard |
| Read active window | NVDA+b | reads all the controls in the currently active window (useful for dialogs) |
| Report Status Bar | NVDA+end | Reports the Status Bar if NVDA finds one. It also moves the navigator object to this location |
%kc:endInclude

++ Navigating with the System Caret ++[SystemCaret]
When an [object #Objects] that allows navigation and/or editing of text is [focused #SystemFocus], you can move through the text using the system caret, also known as the edit cursor.

When the focus is on an object that has the system caret, you can use the arrow keys, page up, page down, home, end, etc. to move through the text.
You can also change the text if the control supports editing.
NVDA will announce as you move by character, word and line, and will also announce as you select and unselect text.

NVDA provides the following key commands in relation to the system caret:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Say all | NVDA+downArrow | Starts reading from the current position of the system caret, moving it along as it goes |
| Read current line | NVDA+upArrow | Reads the line where the system caret is currently situated. Pressing twice spells the line. |
| Read current text selection | NVDA+Shift+upArrow | Reads any currently selected text |


When within a table, the following key commands are also available:
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Move to previous column | control+alt+leftArrow | Moves the system caret to the previous column (staying in the same row) |
| Move to next column | control+alt+rightArrow | Moves the system caret to the next column (staying in the same row) |
| Move to previous row | control+alt+upArrow | Moves the system caret to the previous row (staying in the same column) |
| Move to next row | control+alt+downArrow | Moves the system caret to the next row (staying in the same column) |
%kc:endInclude

++ Object Navigation ++
Most of the time, you will work with applications using commands which move the [focus #SystemFocus] and the [caret #SystemCaret].
However, sometimes, you may wish to explore the current application or the Operating System without moving the focus or caret.
You may also wish to work with [objects #Objects] that cannot be accessed normally using the keyboard.
In these cases, you can use object navigation.

Object navigation allows you to move between and obtain information about individual [objects #Objects].
When you move to an object, NVDA will report it similarly to the way it reports the system focus.
For a way to review all text as it appears on the screen, you can instead use [flat review #FlatReview].

Rather than having to move back and forth between every single object on the system, the objects are organized hierarchically.
This means that some objects contain other objects and you must move inside them to access the objects they contain.
For example, a list contains list items, so you must move inside the list in order to access its items.
If you have moved to a list item, moving next and previous will take you to other list items in the same list.
Moving to a list item's containing object will take you back to the list.
You can then move past the list if you wish to access other objects.
Similarly, a toolbar contains controls, so you must move inside the toolbar to access the controls in the toolbar.

The object currently being reviewed is called the navigator object.
Once you navigate to an object, you can review it using the [text review commands #ReviewingText].
By default, the navigator object moves along with the System focus, though this behaviour can be toggled on and off.

Note that braille follows the [focus #SystemFocus] and [caret #SystemCaret] by default, rather than object navigation and text review.
If you want it to follow object navigation and text review instead, you need to [configure braille to be tethered to #BrailleTether] review.

To navigate by object, use the following keys:

%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Description |
| Report current object | NVDA+numpad5 | NVDA+control+i | Reports the current navigator object. Pressing twice spells the information, and pressing 3 times copies this object's name and value to the clipboard. |
| Move to containing object | NVDA+numpad8 | NVDA+shift+i | Moves to the object containing the current navigator object |
| Move to previous object | NVDA+numpad4 | NVDA+control+j | Moves to the object before the current navigator object |
| Move to next object | NVDA+numpad6 | control+NVDA+l | Moves to the object after the current navigator object |
| Move to first contained object | NVDA+numpad2 | NVDA+shift+comma | Moves to the first object contained by the current navigator object |
| Move to focus object | NVDA+numpadMinus | NVDA+backspace | Moves to the object that currently has the system focus, and also places the review cursor at the position of the System caret, if it is showing |
| Activate current navigator object | NVDA+numpadEnter | NVDA+enter | Activates the current navigator object (similar to clicking with the mouse or pressing space when it has the system focus) |
| Move System focus or caret to current review position | NVDA+shift+numpadMinus | NVDA+shift+backspace | pressed once Moves the System focus to the current navigator object, pressed twice moves the system caret to the position of the review cursor |
| Report navigator object dimensions | NVDA+numpadDelete | NVDA+delete | Reports the current navigator object's dimensions on screen in per centages (including distance from left and top of screen, and its width and height) |
%kc:endInclude

Note: numpad keys require numlock key to be turned off to work properly.

++ Reviewing Text ++[ReviewingText]
NVDA allows you to read the contents of the current [navigator object #ObjectNavigation] (including [flat review #FlatReview]) by character, word or line.
This is mostly useful in places (including Windows command consoles) where there is no [system caret #SystemCaret].
For example, you might use it to review the text of a long information message in a dialog.

When moving the review cursor, the System caret does not follow along, so you can review text without losing your editing position.
However, by default, when the System caret moves, the review cursor follows along.
This can be toggled on and off.

Note that braille follows the [focus #SystemFocus] and [caret #SystemCaret] by default, rather than object navigation and text review.
If you want it to follow object navigation and text review instead, you need to [configure braille to be tethered to #BrailleTether] review.

The following key commands are available for reviewing text:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Description |
| Move to top line in review | shift+numpad7 | NVDA+7 | Moves the review cursor to the top line of the text |
| Move to previous line in review | numpad7 | NVDA+u | Moves the review cursor to the previous line of text |
| Report current line in review | numpad8 | NVDA+i | Announces the current line of text where the review cursor is positioned. Pressing twice spells the line. Pressing three times spells the line using character descriptions. |
| Move to next line in review | numpad9 | NVDA+o | Move the review cursor to the next line of text |
| Move to bottom line in review | shift+numpad9 | NVDA+9 | Moves the review cursor to the bottom line of text |
| Move to previous word in review | numpad4 | NVDA+j | Moves the review cursor to the previous word in the text |
| Report current word in review | numpad5 | NVDA+k | Announces the current word in the text where the review cursor is positioned. Pressing twice spells the word. Pressing three times spells the word using character descriptions. |
| Move to next word in review | numpad6 | NVDA+l | Move the review cursor to the next word in the text |
| Move to start of line in review | shift+numpad1 | NVDA+shift+u | Moves the review cursor to the start of the current line in the text |
| Move to previous character in review | numpad1 | NVDA+m | Moves the review cursor to the previous character on the current line in the text |
| Report current character in review | numpad2 | NVDA+comma | Announces the current character on the line of text where the review cursor is positioned. Pressing twice reports a description or example of that character. Pressing three times reports the numeric value of the character in decimal and hexadecimal. |
| Move to next character in review | numpad3 | NVDA+dot | Move the review cursor to the next character on the current line of text |
| Move to end of line in review | shift+numpad3 | NVDA+shift+o | Moves the review cursor to the end of the current line of text |
| Say all with review | numpadPlus | NVDA+shift+downArrow | Reads from the current position of the review cursor, moving it as it goes |
| Copy from review cursor | NVDA+f9 | NVDA+f9 | starts copying text from the current position of the review cursor. The actual copy is not performed until you tell NVDA where to copy to |
| Copy to review cursor | NVDA+f10 | NVDA+f10 | Copies from the position of the review cursor currently set with Copy from review cursor, to the review cursor's current position. After pressing this key, the text will be copied to the Windows clipboard |
| Report text formatting | NVDA+f | NVDA+f | Reports the formatting of the text where the review cursor is currently situated |
%kc:endInclude

Note: numpad keys require numlock key to be turned off to work properly.

To help you remember these commands, note that the basic text review commands are organized in a grid of three by three, with top to bottom being line, word and character and left to right being previous, current and next.
The layout is illustrated as follows:
| Previous line | Current line | Next line |
| Previous word | Current word | Next word |
| Previous character | Current character | Next character |

++ Flat Review ++[FlatReview]
While you can generally only review the content of a single [object #Objects], some objects allow you to review the content of objects inside them.
Complex documents allow you to review their entire content and application windows allow you to review the text of the screen as it appears visually.
This is called flat review.
This is similar to the screen review or mouse cursor functionality in many other Windows screen readers.

When you move to flat review, you will be positioned at the location of the current [navigator object #ObjectNavigation].
If you haven't used object navigation, this will usually be the object that has the [focus #SystemFocus].
For example, if the navigator object was a button, you will usually be positioned on the text of the button in flat review.
You can then review the text using the [text review commands #ReviewingText].
You can also navigate directly to the object encompassing the current position of the review cursor, allowing you to use [object navigation #ObjectNavigation] from there.

Note that braille follows the [focus #SystemFocus] and [caret #SystemCaret] by default, rather than object navigation and text review.
If you want it to follow object navigation and text review instead, you need to [configure braille to be tethered to #BrailleTether] review.

The following two commands are used for switching to/from flat review:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Description |
| Move to flat review | NVDA+numpad7 | NVDA+pageUp | Moves to flat review, placing you at the position of the current navigator object, allowing you to review the screen (or document if you are currently inside one) with the text review commands. |
| Move to object from flat review | NVDA+numpad1 | NVDA+pageDown | navigates to the object represented by the text at the current position of the review cursor in flat review |
%kc:endInclude

++ Navigating with the Mouse ++
When you move the Mouse, NVDA by default reports the text that is directly under the mouse pointer as the pointer moves over it.
Where supported, NVDA will read the surrounding paragraph of text, though some controls may only read by line.

NVDA can be configured to also announce the type of [object #Objects] under the mouse as it moves (e.g. list, button, etc.).
This may be useful for totally blind users, as sometimes, the text isn't enough.

NVDA provides a way for users to understand where the mouse is located relative to the dimensions of the screen by playing the current mouse coordinates as audio beeps.
The higher the mouse is on the screen, the higher the pitch of the beeps.
The further left or right the mouse is located on the screen, the further left or right the sound will be played (assuming the user has stereo speakers or headphones).

These extra mouse features are not turned on by default in NVDA.
If you wish to take advantage of them, you can configure them from the [Mouse settings #MouseSettings] dialog, found in the NVDA Preferences menu.

Although a physical mouse or trackpad should be used to navigate with the mouse, NVDA has a few key commands related to the mouse:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Description |
| Left mouse button click | numpadDivide | NVDA+leftArrow | clicks the left mouse button once. The common double click can be performed by pressing this key twice in quick succession |
| Left mouse button lock | shift+numpadDivide | NVDA+shift+leftArrow | Locks the left mouse button down. Press again to release it. To drag the mouse, press this key to lock the left button down and then move the mouse either physically or use one of the other mouse routing commands |
| Right mouse click | numpadMultiply | NVDA+rightArrow | Clicks the right mouse button once. |
| Right mouse button lock | shift+numpadMultiply | NVDA+shift+rightArrow | Locks the right mouse button down. Press again to release it. To drag the mouse, press this key to lock the right button down and then move the mouse either physically or use one of the other mouse routing commands |
| Move mouse to current navigator object | NVDA+numpadDivide | NVDA+shift+f9 | Moves the mouse to the location of the current navigator object and review cursor |
| Navigate to the object under the mouse | NVDA+numpadMultiply | NVDA+shift+f10 | Set the navigator object to the object located at the position of the mouse |
%kc:endInclude

+ Browse Mode +
Complex read-only documents such as web pages are browsed in NVDA using browse mode.
This includes documents in Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Adobe Reader and Adobe Flash.

In browse mode, the content of the document is made available in a flat representation that can be navigated with the cursor keys as if it were a normal text document.
All of NVDA's [system caret #SystemCaret] key commands will work in this mode; e.g. say all, report formatting, table navigation commands, etc.
Information such as whether text is a link, heading, etc. is reported along with the text as you move.

Sometimes, you will need to interact directly with controls in these documents.
For example, you will need to do this for editable text fields and lists so that you can type characters and use the cursor keys to work with the control.
You do this by switching to focus mode, where almost all keys are passed to the control.
When in Browse mode, by default, NVDA will automatically switch to focus mode if you tab to or click on a particular control that requires it.
Conversely, tabbing to or clicking on a control that does not require focus mode will switch back to browse mode.
You can also press enter or space to switch to focus mode on controls that require it.
Pressing escape will switch back to browse mode.
In addition, you can manually force focus mode, after which it will remain in effect until you choose to disable it.

%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Toggle browse/focus modes | NVDA+space | Toggles between focus mode and browse mode |
| Exit focus mode | escape | switches back to browse mode if focus mode was previously switched to automatically |
| Refresh browse mode document | NVDA+f5 | Reloads the current document content (useful if certain content seems to be missing from the document) |
| Find | NVDA+control+f | Pops up a dialog in which you can type some text to find in the current document |
| Find next | NVDA+f3 | Finds the next occurrence of the text in the document that you previously searched for |
| Find previous | NVDA+shift+f3 | Finds the previous occurrence of the text in the document you previously searched for |
%kc:endInclude


++ Single Letter Navigation ++
While in browse mode, For quicker navigation, NVDA also provides single character keys to jump to certain fields in the document.

%kc:beginInclude
The following keys by themselves jump to the next available element, while adding the shift key causes them to jump to the previous element:
- h: heading
- l: list
- i: list item
- t: table
- k: link
- n: nonLinked text
- f: form field
- u: unvisited link
- v: visited link
- e: edit field
- b: button
- x: checkbox
- c: combo box
- r: radio button
- q: block quote
- s: separator
- m: frame
- g: graphic
- d: landmark
- o: embedded object
- 1 to 6: headings at levels 1 to 6 respectively
-
To move to the beginning or end of containing elements such as lists and tables:
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Move to start of container | shift+comma | Moves to the start of the container (list, table, etc.) where the caret is positioned |
| Move past end of container | comma | Moves past the end of the container (list, table, etc.) where the caret is positioned |
%kc:endInclude

++ The Elements List ++
The elements list provides access to a list of either links, headings or landmarks in the document.
Radio buttons allow you to switch between these three types of information.
An edit field is also provided in the dialog which allows you to filter the list to help you search for a particular item on the page.
Once you have chosen an item, you can use the provided buttons in the dialog to move to or activate that item.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Browse mode elements list | NVDA+f7 | Brings up the Elements list which contains links, headings and landmarks from the current document |
%kc:endInclude

++ Embedded Objects ++
Pages can include rich content using technologies such as Adobe Flash and Sun Java.
Where these are encountered in browse mode, NVDA will report "embedded object".
You can press enter on these objects to interact with them.
If it is accessible, you can then tab around it and interact with it like any other application.
A key command is provided to return to the original page containing the embedded object:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Move to containing browse mode document | NVDA+control+space | Moves the focus out of the current embedded object and into the document that contains it |
%kc:endInclude

+ 응용프로그램별 특정 NVDA 기능키 +
NVDA provides its own extra commands for some applications to make certain tasks easier or to provide access to functionality which is not otherwise accessible to screen reader users.

++ foobar2000 ++
%kc:beginInclude
| 이름 | 키 | 설명 |
| 남은 시간 알림 | control+shift+r | 연주 중인 트랙의 남은 시간을 알립니다. |
%kc:endInclude

Note: The report remaining time shortcut works only with the default formatting string for foobar's status line.

++ Miranda IM ++
%kc:beginInclude
| 이름 | 키 | 설명 |
| 최근 메시지 알림 | NVDA+control+1-4 | 숫자키 조합에 따라서 최근 메시지 중 하나를 읽습니다. 예) NVDA+control+2를 누르면 두 번째 최근 메시지를 읽습니다. || Report recent message | NVDA+control+1-4 | Reports one of the recent messages, depending on the number pressed; e.g. NVDA+control+2 reads the second most recent message. |
%kc:endInclude

++ Poedit ++
%kc:beginInclude
| 이름 | 키 | 설명 |
| 주석창 읽기 | control+shift+c | 주석창에 있는 주석을 읽습니다. |
| 자동 주석 읽기 | control+shift+a | 자동 주석창에 있는 주석을 읽습니다. |
%kc:endInclude

+ Configuring NVDA +

++ Preferences ++
%kc:settingsSection: || Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Description |
Most NVDA settings can be changed using dialog boxes accessed through the Preferences sub-menu of the NVDA menu.
In all NVDA settings dialog boxes, press the OK button to accept any changes you have made.
To cancel any changes, press the Cancel button or the escape key.
Some settings can also be changed using shortcut keys, which are listed where relevant in the sections below.

+++ General Settings (NVDA+control+g) +++
The General settings dialog box is found in the Preferences menu.
It contains the following options:

==== Language ====
A combo box which allows you to select the language that NVDA's user interface and messages should be shown in.
There are many languages, however the default option is "User Default, Windows".
This option tells NVDA to use the language that Windows is currently set to.

Please note that NVDA must be restarted when changing the language.
NVDA will ask you if you wish to restart if you do change the selection.
Press OK, and NVDA will restart.

==== Save Configuration on Exit ====
This option is a checkbox that, when checked, tells NVDA to automatically save the current configuration when you exit NVDA.

==== Warn before exiting NVDA ====
This option is a checkbox that allows you to choose whether or not a dialog appears when you exit NVDA that asks whether or not you would like to exit.
When checked, a dialog will appear when you attempt to exit NVDA asking whether or not you want to exit.

==== Logging level ====
This is a combo box that permits you to choose how much NVDA will log as it's running.
Generally users should not need to touch this as not too much is logged.
However if you are wanting to provide information in a bug report, then it may be a useful option.

==== Automatically start NVDA after I log on to Windows ====
If this option is enabled, NVDA will start automatically as soon as you log on to Windows.
This option is only available for installed copies of NVDA.

==== Use NVDA on the windows Logon screen (requires administrative privileges) ====
If you log on to Windows by providing a user name and password, then enabling this option will make NVDA start automatically at the logon screen when Windows starts.
This option is only available for installed copies of NVDA.

==== Use currently saved settings on the logon and other secure screens ====
Pressing this button copies your currently saved NVDA user configuration to NVDA's system configuration directory, so that NVDA will use it when running on the logon, User Account Control (UAC) and other secure Windows screens.
To make sure that all your settings are transfered, make sure to firstly save your configuration with control+NVDA+c or save configuration in the NVDA menu.
This option is only available for installed copies of NVDA.

==== Automatically check for updates to NVDA ====
If this is enabled, NVDA will automatically check for updated versions of NVDA and inform you when an update is available.
You can also manually check for updates by selecting Check for updates under Help in the NVDA menu.

+++ Synthesizer Selection (NVDA+control+s) +++
The Synthesizer dialog, which is found under "Synthesizer..." in the Preferences menu, allows you to select which Synthesizer NVDA should use to speak with.
Once you have selected your synthesizer of choice, you can press Ok and NVDA will load the selected Synthesizer.
If there is an error loading the synthesizer, NVDA will notify you with a message, and continue using the previous synthesizer.

==== Synthesizer ====
This option allows you to choose the synthesizer you wish NVDA to use for speech output.

For a list of the Synthesizers that NVDA supports, please see the [Supported Speech Synthesizers #SupportedSpeechSynths] section.

One special item that will always appear in this list is "No speech", which allows you to use NVDA with no speech output what so ever.
This may be useful for someone who wishes to only use NVDA with Braille, or perhaps to sighted developers who only wish to use the Speech Viewer.

==== Output device ====
This option allows you to choose the sound card that NVDA should instruct the selected synthesizer to speak through.

+++ Voice Settings (NVDA+control+v) +++[VoiceSettings]
The Voice Settings dialog, found in the Preferences menu, contains options that let you change the sound of the speech.
For a quicker alternative way of controlling speech parameters from anywhere, please see the [Synth Settings Ring #SynthSettingsRing] section.

The Voice Settings dialog box contains the following options:

==== Voice ====
The first option that you land on in this dialog is a combo box listing all the voices of the current synthesizer that you have installed.
You can use the arrow keys to listen to all the various choices.
Left and Up arrow take you up in the list, while right and down arrow moves you down in the list.

==== Variant ====
If you are using the Espeak synthesizer that is packaged with NVDA, this is a combo box that lets you select the Variant the synthesizer should speak with.
ESpeak's Variants are rather like voices, as they provide slightly different attributes to the eSpeak voice.
Some variants will sound like a male, some like a female, and some even like a frog.

==== Rate ====
This option allows you to change the rate of your voice.
This is a slider that goes from 0 to 100, (0 being the slowest, 100 being the fastest).

==== Pitch ====
This option allows you to change the pitch of the current voice.
It is a slider which goes from 0 to 100, (0 being the lowest pitch and 100 being the highest).

==== Volume ====
This option is a slider which goes from 0 to 100, (0 being the lowest volume and 100 being the highest).

==== Inflection ====
This option is a slider that lets you choose how much inflection (rise and fall in pitch) the synthesizer should use to speak with. (The only synthesizer that provides this option at the present time is eSpeak).

==== Automatic Language switching ====
This checkbox allows you to toggle whether or not NVDA should switch speech synthesizer languages on the fly, if language markup is available in the text being read.
This option is enabled by default.
Currently only the eSpeak synthesizer supports automatic language switching.

==== Automatic Dialect switching ====
If automatic language switching is turned on, this checkbox allows you to toggle whether or not dialect changes should be made, rather than just actual language changes. E.g. If reading in an English U.S. voice but a document states some text is in English U.K. then if this feature is enabled the synthesizer will switch accents.
This option is disabled by default.

%kc:setting
==== Punctuation/Symbol Level ====
Key: NVDA+p

This allows you to choose the amount of punctuation and other symbols that should be spoken as words.
For example, when set to all, all symbols will be spoken as words.
This option applies to all synthesizers, not just the currently active synthesizer.

==== Capital pitch change percentage ====
This edit field allows you to type the amount that the pitch of the voice will change when speaking a capital letter.
This value is a percentage, where a negative value lowers the pitch and a positive value raises it.
For no pitch change you would use 0.

==== Say "cap" before capitals ====
This setting is a checkbox that, when checked, tells NVDA to say the word "cap" before any capital letter when spoken as an individual character such as when spelling.
Usually, NVDA raises the pitch slightly for any capital letter, but some synthesizers may not support this well, so perhaps this option may be of use.

==== Beep for capitals ====
If this checkbox is checked, NVDA will make a small beep each time it encounters a capitalized character by itself.
Like the "say cap for capitals" checkbox, this is useful for Synthesizers that can't change their pitch for capital letters.

==== Use spelling functionality if supported ====[VoiceSpellingFunctionality]
Some words consist of only one character, but the pronunciation is different depending on whether the character is being spoken as an individual character (such as when spelling) or a word.
For example, in English, "a" is both a letter and a word.
This option allows the synthesizer to differentiate between these two cases if the synthesizer supports this.
Most synthesizers do support it.

This option should generally be enabled.
However, some Microsoft Speech API synthesizers do not implement this correctly and behave strangely when it is enabled.
If you are having problems with the pronunciation of individual characters, try disabling this option.

+++ Synth settings ring +++[SynthSettingsRing]
If you wish to quickly change speech settings without going to the Voice settings dialog, there are some NVDA key commands that allow you to move through the most common speech settings from anywhere while running NVDA:
%kc:beginInclude
| 이름 | 데스크캅 키 | 노트북 키 | 설명 |
| 다음 음성 설정 항목으로 이동 | NVDA+control+rightArrow | NVDA+control+rightArrow | 현재 음성 설정 학목 다음에 있는 유효한 음성 설정 항목으로 이동합니다. 마지막 항목이면 맨 앞의 설정 항목으로 돌아 옵니다. |
| 이전 음성 설정 항목으로 이동 | NVDA+control+leftArrow | NVDA+control+leftArrow | 현재 음성 설정 학목 이전에 있는 유효한 음성 설정 항목으로 이동합니다. 맨 처음 항목이면 마지막 설정 항목으로 이동합니다. |
| 현재 선택된 음성 설정값 증가 | NVDA+control+upArrow | NVDA+control+upArrow | 선택된 현재 음성 설정의 값을 증가시킵니다. 예) 음성 속도 증가, 다음 음성 엔진 선택, 음성 크기 증가 |
| 현재 선택된 음성 설정값 감소 | NVDA+control+downArrow | NVDA+control+downArrow | 선택된 현재 음성 설정의 값을 감소시킵니다. 예) 음성 속도 감소, 이전 음성 엔진 선택, 음성 크기 감소 |
%kc:endInclude

+++ Braille Settings +++
The braille settings dialog box can be invoked by going to the preferences menu and then to the braille settings option.

==== Braille Display ====
The first option you will come upon in the braille settings dialog is a combo box that says "braille display".
You will be presented with several options depending on what braille display drivers are available on your system.
Move between these options with the arrow keys.

No braille means that you are not using braille.

Please see the [Supported Braille Displays #SupportedBrailleDisplays] section for more information about supported braille displays.

==== Translation Table ====
The next option you will come to in this dialog is the braille table combo box.
In this combo box, you will find braille tables for different languages. You can move from braille table to braille table in the list by using the arrow keys.

==== Expand to computer braille for the word at the cursor ====
This option allows the word that is under the cursor to be displayed in non-contracted computer braille.

==== Cursor Blink Rate ====
This option is a numerical field that allows you to change the blink rate of the cursor in milliseconds.

==== Message Timeout (sec) ====
This option is a numerical field that controls how long system messages are displayed on the braille display.

%kc:setting
==== Braille Tethered to ====[BrailleTether]
Key: NVDA+control+t

This option allows you to choose whether the braille display will follow the system focus, or whether it follows the navigator object / review cursor.

==== Read by Paragraph ====
If enabled, braille will be displayed by paragraphs instead of lines.
Also, the next and previous line commands will move by paragraph accordingly.
This means that you do not have to scroll the display at the end of each line even where more text would fit on the display.
This may allow for more fluent reading of large amounts of text.
It is disabled by default.

+++ Keyboard Settings (NVDA+control+k) +++
This dialog box is found in the Preferences menu, under "Keyboard settings...".
It contains the following options:

==== Keyboard layout ====
This combo box lets you choose what type of keyboard layout NVDA should use. Currently the two that come with NVDA are Desktop and Laptop.

==== Use capslock as an NVDA modifier key ====
If this checkbox is checked, capslock can be used as an NVDA modifier key.

==== Use extended insert as an NVDA modifier key ====
If this checkbox is checked, the extended insert key (usually found above the arrow keys, near home and end) can be used as an NVDA modifier key.

==== Use numpad insert as an NVDA modifier key ====
If this checkbox is checked, the insert key on the number pad can be used as an NVDA modifier key.

%kc:setting
==== Speak Typed Characters ====
Key: NVDA+2

When enabled, NVDA will announce all characters you type on the keyboard.

%kc:setting
==== Speak Typed Words ====
Key: NVDA+3

When enabled, NVDA will announce all words you type on the keyboard.

==== Beep if Typing Lowercase Letters when Caps Lock is On ====
When enabled, a warning beep will be heard if a letter is typed with the shift key while caps lock is on.
Generally, typing shifted letters with caps lock is unintentional and is usually due to not realising that caps lock is enabled.
Therefore, it can be quite helpful to be warned about this.

%kc:setting
==== Speak Command Keys ====
Key: NVDA+4

When enabled, NVDA will announce all non-character keys you type on the keyboard. This includes key combinations such as control plus another letter.

+++ 마우스 설정 (NVDA+control+m) +++[MouseSettings]
The Mouse Settings dialog is found in the Preferences Menu, under "Mouse settings...".
It contains the following options:

==== Report Mouse Shape Changes ====
A checkbox, that when checked means that NVDA will announce the shape of the mouse pointer each time it changes.
The mouse pointer in Windows changes shape to convey certain information such as when something is editable, or when something is loading etc.

%kc:setting
==== 마우스 추적 가능 ====
| Desktop key | NVDA+m |
| Laptop key | NVDA+shift+m |

이 옵션을 선택하면, 마우스의 움직임에 따라서 NVDA는 마우스 포인터가 위치한 텍스트를 읽습니다. 이 기능은 화면 속의 어떤 것을 찾을 때에 객체 탐색 방식 보다 물리적인 마우스 동작 방식을 더 유리하게 만듭니다.

==== Text unit resolution ====
If NVDA is set to announce the text under the mouse as you move it, this option allows you to choose exactly how much text will be spoken.
The options are character, word, line and paragraph.

==== Report role when mouse enters object ====
If this checkbox is checked, NVDA will announce the role (type) of object as the mouse moves in side it.

==== Play audio coordinates when mouse moves ====
Checking this checkbox makes NVDA play beeps as the mouse moves, so that the user can work out where the mouse is in regards to the dimensions of the screen.

==== Brightness controls audio coordinates volume ====
If the "play audio coordinates when mouse moves" checkbox is checked, then checking this checkbox means that the volume of the audio coordinates beeps is controled by how bright the screen is under the mouse.
This setting is unchecked by default.

+++ 리뷰 커서 설정 +++
Found in the Preferences menu under "Review Cursor...".
This dialog contains the following options:

%kc:setting
==== 시스템 포커스 따르기 ====
| Desktop key | NVDA+7 |
| Laptop key | NVDA+control+7 |

이 옵션을 선택하면, 시스템 포커스가 이동하더라도 리뷰 커서는 항상 현재 시스템 포커스와 동일한 객체에 위치하게 됩니다.

%kc:setting
==== 시스템 캐럿 따르기 ====
Key: NVDA+6

이 옵션을 선택하면, 시스템 캐럿이 이동하더라도 리뷰 커서는 시스템 캐럿의 위치로 자동적으로 이동합니다.

==== Follow mouse ====
When enabled, the review cursor will follow the mouse as it moves.

==== Simple Review mode ====
When enabled, NVDA will filter the hierarchy of objects that can be navigated to exclude objects that aren't of interest to the user; e.g. invisible objects and objects used only for layout purposes.

+++ 객체 표시 설정 (NVDA+control+o) +++
Found in the Preferences menu under "Object Presentation...".
This dialog box contains the following options:

==== Report Tool Tips ====
A checkbox that when checked tells NVDA to report tool tips as they appear.
Many Windows and controls show a small message (or tool tip) when you move the mouse pointer over them, or sometimes when you move the focus to them.

==== Report Help Balloons ====
This checkbox when checked tells NVDA to report help balloons as they appear.
Help Balloons are like tool tips, but are usually larger in size, and are associated with system events such as a network cable being unplugged, or perhaps to alert you about Windows security issues.

==== Report Object Shortcut Keys ====
When this checkbox is checked, NVDA will include the shortcut key that is associated with a certain object or control when it is reported.
For example the File menu on a menu bar may have a shortcut key of alt+f.

==== Report object position information ====
This option lets you choose whether you wish to have an object's position (e.g. 1 of 4) reported when moving to the object with the focus or object navigation.

==== Guess Object Position Information when unavailable ====
If reporting of object position information is turned on, this option allows NVDA to guess object position information when it is otherwise unavailable for a particular control.

When on, NVDA will report position information for more controls such as menus and toolbars, however this information may be slightly inaccurate.

==== Report Object descriptions ====
Uncheck this checkbox if you don't wish to have the description reported along with objects.

%kc:setting
==== 진행율 출력 ====
| Desktop key | NVDA+u |
| Laptop key | NVDA+control+f2 |

이 옵션은 NVDA가 진행율 변경을 어떻게 알려 줄 것인지 그 방법을 제어합니다.

It has the following options:
- Off: Progress bars will not be reported as they change.
- Speak: This option tells NVDA to speak the progress bar in percentages. Each time the progress bar changes, NVDA will speak the new value.
- Beep: This tells NVDA to beep each time the progress bar changes. The higher the beep, the closer the progress bar is to completion.
- Beep and speak: This option tells NVDA to both beep and speak when a progress bar updates.
-

==== Report background progress bars ====
This is an option that, when checked, tells NVDA to keep reporting a progress bar, even if it is not physically in the foreground.
If you minimize or switch away from a window that contains a progress bar, NVDA will keep track of it, allowing you to do other things while NVDA tracks the progress bar.

%kc:setting
==== 동적 컨텐츠의 변경 알림 ====
Key: NVDA+5

터미널과 채팅 프로그램의 history 제어 등 특정 객체에서 새로운 컨텐츠 읽기 온/오프를 토글합니다.

+++ Browse Mode Settings (NVDA+control+b) +++
The Browse Mode settings dialog can be found in the Preferences menu, under "Browse mode...".

The dialog contains the following options:

==== Maximum Number of Characters on One Line ====
This field sets the maximum length of a line in browse mode (in characters).

==== Maximum Lines Per Page ====
This field sets the amount of lines you will move by when pressing page up or page down while in browse mode.

%kc:setting
==== Use screen layout ====
Key: NVDA+v

This option allows you to specify whether content in browse mode should place content such as links and other fields on their own line, or if it should keep them in the flow of text as it is visually shown. If the option is enabled then things will stay as they are visually shown, but if it is disabled then fields will be placed on their own line.

==== Automatic Say All on page load ====
This checkbox toggles the automatic reading of a page after it loads in browse mode.
This option is enabled by default.

==== Report layout tables ====
When disabled this option makes NVDA only report tables that contain tabular data (where it makes sense to know that this is a table).
But if enabled, NVDA will also report tables used purely for visual presentation.

==== Configuring reporting of fields such as links and headings ====
Please see the options in the [Document Formatting Settings dialog #DocumentFormattingSettings] to configure the fields that are reported when navigating, such as links, headings and tables.

==== Automatic focus mode for focus changes ====
This option allows focus mode to be invoked if focus changes.
For example, when on a web page, if you press tab and you land on a form, if this option is checked, focus mode will automatically be invoked.

==== Automatic focus mode for caret movement ====
This option, when checked, allows NVDA to enter and leave focus mode when using arrow keys.
For example, if arrowing down a webpage and you land on an edit box, NVDA will automatically bring you into focus mode. If you arrow out of the edit box, NVDA will put you back in browse mode.

==== Audio indication of Focus and Browse modes ====
If this option is enabled, NVDA will play special sounds when it switches between browse mode and focus mode, rather than speaking the change.

+++ Document Formatting Settings (NVDA+control+d) +++[DocumentFormattingSettings]
This dialog box is found in the Preferences menu, under "Document Formatting...".

Most of the checkboxes in this dialog are for configuring what type of formatting you wish to have reported as you move the cursor around documents.
For example, if you check the report font name checkbox, each time you arrow onto text with a different font, the name of the font will be announced.

You can configure reporting of:
- Font name
- Font size
- Font attributes
- Text alignment
- Colors
- Text style
- Spelling errors
- Page numbers
- Line numbers
- Line indentation
- Tables
- Table row/column headers
- Table cell coordinates
- Links
- Headings
- Lists
- Block quotes
- Landmarks
- Frames
-

==== Announce formatting changes after the cursor ====
If enabled, this setting tells NVDA to try and detect all the formatting changes on a line as it speaks it, even if doing this may slow down NVDA's performance.

By default, NVDA will detect the formatting at the position of the System caret / Review Cursor, and in some instances may detect formatting on the rest of the line, only if it is not going to cause a performance decrease.

Enable this option while proof reading documents in applications such as Microsoft Word, where formatting is important.

+++ Speech dictionaries +++
The speech dictionaries menu (found in the Preferences menu) contains dialogs that allow you to manage the way NVDA pronounces particular words or phrases.
There are currently three different types of speech dictionaries.
They are:
- Default: rules in this dictionary affect all speech in NVDA.
- Voice: rules in this dictionary affect speech for the synthesizer voice currently being used.
- Temporary: rules in this dictionary affect all speech in NVDA, but only for the current session. These rules are temporary and will be lost if NVDA is restarted.
-

All dictionary dialogs contain a list of rules which will be used for processing the speech.
The dialog also contains Add, Edit and remove buttons.

To add a new rule to the dictionary, press the Add button, and fill in the fields in the dialog box that appears and then press Ok.
You will then see your new rule in the list of rules.
However to make sure your rule is actually saved, make sure to press Ok to exit the dictionary dialog all together once you have finished adding/editing rules.

The rules for NVDA's speech dictionaries allow you to change one string of characters into another.
A simple example would be that you want to have NVDA say the word frog each time it is supposed to say the word bird.
In the Add rule dialog, the easiest way to do this is to type the word bird in the Pattern field, and the word frog in the Replacement field.
You may also want to type a description of the rule in the Comment field (something like: changes bird to frog).

NVDA's speech dictionaries however are much more powerful than simple word replacement.
The Add rule dialog also contains a checkbox to say whether or not you want the rule to be case sensitive (meaning that NVDA should care whether the characters are uppercase or lowercase.
NVDA ignores case by default).
Another checkbox allows you to state whether your pattern is a "Regular expression".
A regular expression is a pattern containing special symbols that allow you to match on more than one character at a time, or match on just numbers, or just letters, as a few examples.
Regular expressions are not covered in this user guide, but there are many tutorials on the web which can provide you with more information.

+++ Punctuation/symbol pronunciation +++[SymbolPronunciation]
This dialog allows you to change the way punctuation and other symbols are pronounced, as well as the symbol level at which they are spoken.

To change a symbol, first select it in the Symbols list.
The Replacement field allows you to change the text that should be spoken in place of this symbol.
Using the Level field, you can adjust the lowest symbol level at which this symbol should be spoken.

When you are finished, press the OK button to save your changes or the Cancel button to discard them.

++ 환경 설정 저장하기와 다시 불러 오기 ++
By default NVDA will automatically save your settings on exit.
Note, however, that this option can be changed under the general options in the preferences menu.
To save the settings manually at any time, choose the Save configuration item in the NVDA menu.

If you ever make a mistake with your settings and need to revert back to the saved settings, choose the "revert to saved configuration" item in the NVDA menu.
You can also reset your settings to their original factory defaults by choosing Reset Configuration To Factory Defaults, which is also found in the NVDA menu.

The following NVDA key commands are also useful:
%kc:beginInclude
| 이름 | 데스크탑 키 | 노트북 키 | 설명 |
| 환경 설정 저장하기 | NVDA+control+c | NVDA+control+c | NVDA를 종료해도 환경 설정 값을 잃지 않도록 현재 환경 설정을 저장합니다. |
| 기존환경 설정으로 되돌아가기 | NVDA+control+r | NVDA+control+r | 한번 누르면 최신 저장된 환경설정으로 돌아가고 세번 누르면 설정을 NVDA 설치때의 설정으로 되돌립니다. |
%kc:endInclude

++ Configuration files and user profiles ++
Portable versions of NVDA store all settings, custom appModules and custom drivers in a directory called userConfig, found in the NVDA directory.

Installed versions of NVDA store all settings, custom appModules and custom drivers in a special NVDA directory located in your Windows user profile.
This means that each user on the system can have their own NVDA settings.
To get to your settings directory for an installed version of NVDA, on the start menu you can go to programs -> NVDA -> explore user configuration directory.

Settings for NVDA when running on the logon or UAC screens is stored in the systemConfig directory in NVDA's installation directory.
Usually this configuration should not be touched.
To change how NVDA is configured on the logon/UAC screens, configure NVDA to how you wish while logged into Windows, and then instruct NVDA to copy the configuration to the logon screen by using the button in the General settings dialog.

+ Extra Tools +

++ Log Viewer ++
The log viewer, found under Tools in the NVDA menu, allows you to view all the logging output that has occured up until now from when you last started NVDA.

Apart from reading the content, you can also Save a copy of the log file, or refresh the viewer so that it shows the most recent output since the Log viewer was opened.
These actions are available under the viewer's Log menu.

++ Speech Viewer ++
For sighted software developers or people demoing NVDA to sighted audiences, a floating window is available that allows you to view all the text that NVDA is currently speaking.

To enable the speech viewer, check the "Speech Viewer" menu item under Tools in the NVDA menu.
Uncheck the menu item to disable it.

While the speech viewer is enabled, it constantly updates to show you the most current text being spoken.
However, if you click or focus inside the viewer, NVDA will temporarily stop updating the text, so that you are able to easily select or copy the existing content.

++ Add-ons Manager ++
The Add-ons Manager, accessed by selecting Manage add-ons under Tools in the NVDA menu, allows you to install and uninstall add-on packages for NVDA.
These packages are provided by the community and contain custom code that may add or change features in NVDA or even provide support for extra Braille displays or speech synthesizers.

The Add-ons Manager contains a list that displays all the add-ons currently installed in your NVDA user configuration. 
A package name, version and author are shown for each add-on, though further information such as a description and URL can be viewed by selecting the add-on and pressing the About add-on button.

To install an Add-on, press the Install button.
This will allow you to browse for an add-on package (.nvda-addon file) somewhere on your computer or on a network.
Once you press Open, NVDA will ask if you really wish to install the add-on.
As the functionality of add-ons is unrestricted inside NVDA, which in theory could include accessing your personal data or even the entire system if NVDA is an installed copy, it is very important to only install add-ons from sources you trust.
Once the add-on is installed, NVDA must be restarted for the add-on to start running. 
Until you do, a status of "install" will show for that add-on in the list.

To remove an add-on, select the add-on from the list and press the Remove button.
NVDA will ask if you really wish to do this.
As with installing, NVDA must be restarted for the add-on to be fully  removed.
Until you do, a status of "remove" will be shown for that add-on in the list.

The manager also has a Close button to close the dialog.
If you have installed or removed add-ons, NVDA will first ask you if you wish to restart so that your changes can take effect.

In the past it has been possible to extend NVDA's functionality by copying individual plugins and drivers in to your NVDA user Configuration directory.
Although this version of NVDA  may still   load them, they will not be shown in the Add-on Manager.
It is best to remove these files from your configuration and install  the appropriate add-on if one is available.

++ Python Console ++
The NVDA Python console, found under Tools in the NVDA menu, is a development tool which is useful for debugging, general inspection of NVDA internals or inspection of the accessibility hierarchy of an application.
For more information, please see the Developer Guide available from [the Development section of the NVDA web site NVDA_URLwiki/Development].

++ Reload plugins ++
This item, once activated, reloads app modules and global plugins without restarting NVDA, which can be useful for developers.

+ 지원하는 음성 엔진 +[SupportedSpeechSynths]
이 섹션은 NVDA가 지원하는 음성 엔진에 관한 정보를 포함하고 있습니다.
NVDA에서 사용할 수 있고 무료/유료로 구매하거나 다운로드 받을 수 있는 음성 엔진의 더욱 더 많은 정보를 찾으신다면,  [http://www.nvda-project.org/wiki/ExtraVoices http://www.nvda-project.org/wiki/ExtraVoices] 페이지를 보세요.

++ eSpeak ++
[eSpeak http://espeak.sourceforge.net/] 엔진은 NVDA에 직접적으로 내장되어 있고 특별한 드라이버나 구성요소를 설치할 필요가 없습니다.
NVDA는 디폴트로 eSpeak 엔진을 사용하여 시작합니다.
이 엔진은 NVDA에 내장되어 있기 때문에 다른 시스템의 USB 메모리에서 NVDA를 실행하는 것은 매우 훌륭한 선택입니다.

eSpeak의 각 음성은 다양한 언어로 말합니다.
eSpeak가 지원하는 다양한 언어들은 43개국 언어가 넘습니다.

음성의 소리를 대체하기 위하여 선택할 수 있는 다양한 variants가 있습니다.

++ Microsoft Speech API version 4 (SAPI 4) ++
SAPI 4는 마이크로소프트의 오래된 소프트웨어 음성엔진용 표준 규격입니다.
이 표준 규격을 준수하는 많은 음성 엔진들을 여러 회사와 웹사이트에서 구입하거나 무료로 다운받을 수 있습니다.
NVDA에서 SAPI 4 음성 엔진을 이용할 때, ([보이스 설정 대화상자 #VoiceSettings] 혹은 [음성 엔진 설정 Ring #SynthSettingsRing])으로 액세스된) 사용가능한 음성들은 시스템에 설치된 모든 SAPI 4 엔진을 포함합니다.

만약 SAPI 4 음성 엔진을 설치하였지만 엔진이 NVDA의 음성 엔진 리스트에 표시되지 않는다면, http://activex.microsoft.com/activex/controls/sapi/spchapi.exe에서 SAPI 4.0 runtime binaries를 설치하세요.

++ Microsoft Speech API version 5 (SAPI 5) ++
SAPI 5는 마이크로소프트의 소프트웨어 음성 엔진용 표준 규격입니다.
시스템에 최소한 하나의 SAPI 5 음성엔진이 프리인스톨되어 있다 하더라도 이 표준 규격을 준수하는 많은 음성 엔진들을 여러 회사와 웹사이트에서 구입하거나 무료로 다운받을 수 있습니다.
NVDA에서 SAPI 4 음성 엔진을 이용할 때, ([보이스 설정 대화상자 #VoiceSettings] 혹은 [음성 엔진 설정 Ring #SynthSettingsRing])으로 액세스된) 사용가능한 음성들은 시스템에 설치된 모든 SAPI 5 엔진을 포함합니다.

++ Microsoft Speech Platform ++
Microsoft Speech Platform은 보통 서버 기반의 음성 애플리케이션 개발에 이용되는 다양한 언어의 음성들을 제공합니다.
이 음성들은 NVDA에서도 사용할 수 있습니다.

이 음성들을 사용하려면 이하의 구성요소 두 가지를 설치해야 합니다.
- Microsoft Speech Platform - Runtime (Version 11) , x86: http://www.microsoft.com/download/en/details.aspx?id=27225
- Microsoft Speech Platform - Runtime Languages (Version 11): http://www.microsoft.com/download/en/details.aspx?id=27224
 - 이 페이지는 음성 인식 및 text-to-speech용 많은 파일들을 포함합니다.
 희망하는 언어/음성용 TTS 데이터를 포함하는 파일을 선택하세요.
 예를 들면, MSSpeech_TTS_en-US_ZiraPro.msi 파일은 미국식 영어 음성입니다.
 -
-

++ Audiologic Tts3 ++
이것은 상용 이탈리아어 음성 엔진입니다.
NVDA에서 이 음성 엔진을 사용하려면 반드시 시스템에 설치해야 합니다.
더 상세한 정보를 원하시면 Audiologic 웹사이트 www.audiologic.it를 방문하세요.

이 음성 엔진은 [spelling functionality #VoiceSpellingFunctionality]을 지원하지 않습니다.

++ Newfon ++
Newfon은 Sergey Shishmintzev에 의해 개발되는 무료 상용 음성 엔진으로 러시아어와 우크라이나어를 지원합니다.
이 음성 엔진을 다운로드하려면, 러시아 NVDA 커뮤니티 사이트의 다운로드 섹션 http://ru.nvda-community.org/?page_id=10을 방문하세요. 

이 음성 엔진은 [spelling functionality #VoiceSpellingFunctionality]을 지원하지 않습니다.

+ 지원되는 점자 디스플레이들 +[SupportedBrailleDisplays]
This section contains information about the Braille displays supported by NVDA.

++ Freedom Scientific Focus/PAC Mate Series ++
All Focus and PAC Mate displays from [Freedom Scientific http://www.freedomscientific.com/] are supported when connected via USB or bluetooth.
You will need the Freedom Scientific braille display drivers installed on your system.
If you do not have them already, you can obtain them from http://www.freedomscientific.com/downloads/focus-40-blue/focus-40-blue-downloads.asp.
Although this page only mentions the Focus 40 Blue display, the drivers support all Freedom Scientific displays.
If your system is running 64 bit Windows and the drivers were already installed by another screen reader, you will probably still need to install the drivers from this link, as the files required by NVDA were probably not installed by the other screen reader.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Toggle left wiz wheel action | leftWizWheelPress |
| Move back using left wiz wheel action | leftWizWheelUp |
| Move forward using left wiz wheel action | leftWizWheelDown |
| Toggle right wiz wheel action | rightWizWheelPress |
| Move back using right wiz wheel action | rightWizWheelUp |
| Move forward using right wiz wheel action | rightWizWheelDown |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
%kc:endInclude

++ Optelec ALVA BC640/680 ++
Both the ALVA BC640 and BC680 displays from [Optelec http://www.optelec.com/] are supported when connected via USB or bluetooth.
You do not need any specific drivers to be installed to use these displays.
Just plug in the display and configure NVDA to use it.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | t1 |
| Move braille display to previous line | t2 |
| Move braille display to next line | t4 |
| Scroll braille display forward | t5 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| shift+tab key | sp1 |
| alt key | sp2 |
| escape key | sp3 |
| tab key | sp4 |
| upArrow key | spUp |
| downArrow key | spDown |
| leftArrow key | spLeft |
| rightArrow key | spRight |
| enter key | spEnter |
| NVDA Menu | sp1+sp3 |
| windows+d key (minimize all applications) | sp1+sp4 |
| windows key | sp2+sp3 |
| alt+tab key | sp2+sp4 |
%kc:endInclude

++ Handy Tech Displays ++
NVDA supports all displays from [Handy Tech http://www.handytech.de/] when connected via USB or bluetooth.
For older USB displays, you will need to install the USB drivers from Handy Tech on your system.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left, up |
| Scroll braille display forward | right, down |
| Move braille display to previous line | b4 |
| Move braille display to next line | b5 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| shift+tab key | esc |
| alt key | b2+b4+b5 |
| escape key | b4+b6 |
| tab key | enter |
| enter key | esc+enter |
| upArrow key | leftSpace |
| downArrow key | rightSpace |
| NVDA Menu | b2+b4+b5+b6 |
| Handy Tech configuration | b4+b8 |
%kc:endInclude

++ MDV Lilli ++
The Lilli braille display available from [MDV http://www.mdvbologna.it/] is supported.
You do not need any specific drivers to be installed to use this display.
Just plug in the display and configure NVDA to use it.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display backward | LF |
| Scroll braille display forward | RG |
| Move braille display to previous line | UP |
| Move braille display to next line | DN |
| Route to braille cell | route |
| shift+tab key | SLF |
| tab key | SRG |
| alt+tab key | SDN |
| alt+shift+tab key | SUP |
%kc:endInclude

++ Baum/Humanware/APH Braille Displays ++
Several [Baum http://www.baum.de/cms/en/], [HumanWare http://www.humanware.com/] and [APH http://www.aph.org/] displays are supported when connected via USB or bluetooth.
These include:
- Baum: SuperVario, PocketVario
- HumanWare: Brailliant, BrailleConnect
- APH: Refreshabraille
-
Some other displays manufactured by Baum may also work, though this has not been tested.

If connecting via USB, you must first install the USB drivers provided by the manufacturer.
For the APH Refreshabraille, the USB mode must be set to serial.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | d2 |
| Scroll braille display forward | d5 |
| Move braille display to previous line | d1 |
| Move braille display to next line | d3 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |

For displays which have a joystick:
|| Name | Key |
| upArrow key | up |
| downArrow key | down |
| leftArrow key | left |
| rightArrow key | right |
| enter key | select |
%kc:endInclude

++ hedo ProfiLine USB ++
The hedo ProfiLine USB from [hedo Reha-Technik http://www.hedo.de/] is supported.
You must first install the USB drivers provided by the manufacturer.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | K1 |
| Scroll braille display forward | K3 |
| Move braille display to previous line | B2 |
| Move braille display to next line | B5 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Toggle braille tethered to | K2 |
| Say all | B6 |
%kc:endInclude

++ hedo MobilLine USB ++
The hedo MobilLine USB from [hedo Reha-Technik http://www.hedo.de/] is supported.
You must first install the USB drivers provided by the manufacturer.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | K1 |
| Scroll braille display forward | K3 |
| Move braille display to previous line | B2 |
| Move braille display to next line | B5 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Toggle braille tethered to | K2 |
| Say all | B6 |
%kc:endInclude

++ HumanWare Brailliant BI/B Series ++
The Brailliant BI and B series of displays from [HumanWare http://www.humanware.com/], including the BI 32, BI 40 and B 80, are supported when connected via USB or bluetooth.
If connecting via USB, you must first install the USB drivers provided by the manufacturer.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left |
| Scroll braille display forward | right |
| Move braille display to previous line | up |
| Move braille display to next line | down |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Toggle braille tethered to | up+down |
| upArrow key | space+dot1 |
| downArrow key | space+dot4 |
| leftArrow key | space+dot3 |
| rightArrow key | space+dot6 |
| NVDA Menu | c1+c3+c4+c5 (command n) |
| shift+tab key | space+dot1+dot3 |
| tab key | space+dot4+dot6 |
| alt key | space+dot1+dot3+dot4 (space+m) |
| escape key | space+dot1+dot5 (space+e) |
| enter key | dot8 |
| windows+d key (minimize all applications) | c1+c4+c5 (command d) |
| windows key | space+dot3+dot4 |
| alt+tab key | space+dot2+dot3+dot4+dot5 (space+t) |
| Say all | c1+c2+c3+c4+c5+c6 |
%kc:endInclude

++ HIMS Braille Sense/Braille EDGE Series ++
NVDA supports Braille Sense and Braille EDGE displays from [Hims http://www.hims-inc.com/] when connected via USB or bluetooth. 
If connecting via USB, you will need to install the USB drivers from HIMS on your system.

Following are the key assignments for these displays with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left side scroll down |
| Scroll braille display forward | right side scroll down |
| Move braille display to previous line | left side scroll up |
| Move braille display to next line | right side scroll up |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| shift+tab key | dot1+dot2+space |
| alt key | dot1+dot3+dot4+Space |
| escape key | dot1+dot5+Space |
| tab key | dot4+dot5+Space |
| enter key | dot8 |
| backspace key | dot7 |
| upArrow key | dot1+Space |
| downArrow key | dot4+Space |
| capsLock | dot1+dot3+dot6+space |
| shift+alt+tab key | advance2+advance3+advance1 |
| alt+tab key | advance2+advance3 |
| end key | dot4+dot6+space |
| Control+end key | dot4+dot5+dot6+space |
| home key | dot1+dot3+space |
| control+home key | dot1+dot2+dot3+space |
| leftArrow key | dot3+space |
| control+shift+leftArrow key | dot2+dot8+space+advance1 |
| control+leftArrow key | dot2+space |
| shift+alt+leftArrow key | dot2+dot7+advance1 |
| alt+leftArrow key | dot2+dot7 |
| rightArrow key | dot6+space |
| control+shift+rightArrow key | dot5+dot8+space+advance1 |
| control+rightArrow key | dot5+space |
| shift+alt+rightArrow key | dot5+dot7+advance1 |
| alt+rightArrow key | dot5+dot7 |
| pageUp key | dot1+dot2+dot6+space |
| control+pageUp key | dot1+dot2+dot6+dot8+space |
| control+shift+upArrow key | dot2+dot3+dot8+space+advance1 |
| control+upArrow key | dot2+dot3+space |
| shift+alt+upArrow key | dot2+dot3+dot7+advance1 |
| alt+upArrow key | dot2+dot3+dot7 |
| shift+upArrow key | left side scroll down + space |
| pageDown key | dot3+dot4+dot5+space |
| control+pagedown key | dot3+dot4+dot5+dot8+space |
| control+shift+downArrow key | dot5+dot6+dot8+space+advance1 |
| control+downArrow key | dot5+dot6+space |
| shift+alt+downArrow key | dot5+dot6+dot7+advance1 |
| alt+downArrow key | dot5+dot6+dot7 |
| shift+downArrow key | right side scroll down + space |
| delete key | dot1+dot3+dot5+space |
| f1 key | dot1+dot2+dot5+space |
| f3 key | dot1+dot2+dot4+dot8 |
| f4 key | dot7+advance3 |
| windows+b key | dot1+dot2+advance1 |
| windows+d key | dot1+dot4+dot5+advance1 |
%kc:endInclude

++ HIMS SyncBraille ++
NVDA supports the SyncBraille Display from [HIMS http://www.hims-inc.com/].
You will need to install the USB drivers from HIMS on your system.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left side scroll down |
| Scroll braille display forward | right side scroll down |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
%kc:endInclude

++ BRLTTY ++
[BRLTTY http://mielke.cc/brltty/] is a separate program which can be used to support many more braille displays.
In order to use this, you need to install [BRLTTY for Windows http://brl.thefreecat.org/brltty/].
You should download and install the latest installer package, which will be named, for example, brltty-win-4.2-2.exe.
When configuring the display and port to use, be sure to pay close attention to the instructions, especially if you are using a USB display and already have the manufacturer's drivers installed.

Following are the BRLTTY command assignments for NVDA.
Please see the [BRLTTY key tables documentation http://mielke.cc/brltty/doc/drivers/] for information about how BRLTTY commands are mapped to controls on braille displays.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | BRLTTY command |
| Scroll braille display back | fwinlt (go left one window) |
| Scroll braille display forward | fwinrt (go right one window) |
| Move braille display to previous line | lnup (go up one line) |
| Move braille display to next line | lndn (go down one line) |
| Route to braille cell | route (bring cursor to character) |
%kc:endInclude

+ 고급 사용자 기능 +

++ 키 할당 및 다른 입력 제스처의 재배치 ++
사용자는 NVDA 환경 설정 디렉토리에 있는 특별한 파일의 스크립트로 (키 누름 등) 입력 제스처의 매핑을 지정하거나 무효화 할 수 있습니다.
이 파일은 gestures.ini입니다.

이 파일은 일반적인 ini 형식을 사용합니다.
이 파일은 여러 가지 섹션을 포함할 수 있고 각각의 섹션은 하나 이상의 엔트리를 포함할 수 있습니다.

각각의 섹션은 특정한 파이썬 모듈에 있는 스크립트와 NVDA 내부에 있는 클래스에게 매핑을 제공합니다.
- 섹션의 이름은 점(.)으로 구분된 파이썬 모듈과 클래스여야 합니다.
- 각 엔트리의 키는 입력 제스처와 연결된 스크립트의 이름입니다.
그 대신에 여러분은 none를 사용하여 스크립트에서 이전에 연결되어 있던 입력 제스처를 무효화할 수 있습니다.
none를 포함하는 각 엔트리 키는 섹션 당 단 한번만 사용할 수 있습니다.
- 엔트리 값은 입력 제스처와 연결된 제스처 식별자의 리스트이며 각 식별자는 쉼표(,)로 구분합니다.
쉼표(,)로 끝나는 제스처 식별자는 따옴표(", ')로 감싸야 합니다.
-

제스처 식별자는 두 글자로 된 장치 코드(키보드는 kb, 점자 디스플레이는 br), 대괄호 속의 보조 장치나 레이아웃, 콜론(:), 이어서 덧셈 기호(+)로 구분되는 하나 이상의 키 이름으로 구성됩니다.
키보드 제스처의 경우 대괄호 속의 내용은 키보드 레이아웃이며 선택적으로 생략 가능합니다.
만약 키보드 레이아웃이 지정되지 않았다면 제스처는 모든 키보드 레이아웃으로 적용합니다.
점자 디스플레이 제스처의 경우 대괄호 안의 내용은 특정한 점자 디스플레이이며 필수적입니다.

제스처 식별자와 이 식별자가 포함하는 스크립트 이름, 클래스, 모듈을 찾으려면 다음과 같이 하십시오.
+ 입력 도움말을 켭니다.
+ 제스처를 활성화합니다.(해당 키를 누릅니다).
+ 입력 도움말을 끕니다.
+ NVDA의 도구 메뉴에 있는 로그 보기를 활성화합니다.
+ 최근 로그 기록을 조사합니다.
만약 제스처 식별자가 입력 제스처와 연결되어 있다면, 이것들 중 하나는 모듈.클래스와 스크립트를 포함하는  입력 제스처에 관한 정보를 제공할 것입니다. 
+

이하는 NVDA+쉬프트+T를 날짜 시간 스크립트로 연결하는 방법을 예시한 것입니다.

날짜 시간에 관한 정확한 스크립트 이름과 모듈.클래스를 알아 내기 위하여 입력 도움말을 켜고 NVDA+F12키를 누르세요NVDA+F12는 날짜 시간 스크립트에 관한 현재 제스처입니다).
그 다음에 입력 도움말을 끄고 로그 뷰어를 조사합니다.

맨 아래 쪽에 다음을 보실 수 있습니다.

```
INFO - inputCore.InputManager._handleInputHelp (13:17:22):
Input help: gesture kb(desktop):NVDA+f12, bound to script dateTime on globalCommands.GlobalCommands
```

여기에서 스크립트 이름이 'dateTime'이고 모듈.클래스가 'globalCommands.GlobalCommands'라는 것을 알 수 있습니다. 

만약 파일이 아직 존재하지 않는다면, 사용자 환경 설정 디렉토리 안에 'gesture.ini'라는 이름을 가진 텍스트 파일을 만들고 다음 내용을 추가합니다.

```
[globalCommands.GlobalCommands]
	dateTime = kb:NVDA+shift+t
```

이 내용은 (모든 레이아웃에서) NVDA+쉬프트+t를 dateTime 스크립트에 연결할 것입니다.

본래의 NVDA+f12의 연결도 여전히 유효하다는 것에 주의하세요.
만약 이 연결을 제거하려 한다면 다음 줄에 아래와 같이 추가하세요.

```
	None = kb:NVDA+f12
```

비록 여러분이 스크립트를 어떤 사용 가능한 키에 자유롭게 연결할 수 있다 하더라도 키보드의 알트키를 사용하는 것은 문제가 될 수 있습니다.
(쉬프트, 컨트럴, 알트와 같은) modifier key들이 스크립트에서 발생한다 하더라도 NVDA는 이 키들을 여전히 운영체계로 보냅니다.
따라서 만약 제스처에서 알트키를 사용한다면, 알트키 조합 단축키는 스크립트를 실행할 뿐만 아니라 메뉴바를 열어 버릴 수도 있습니다.
그러므로 아마도 최선은 쉬프트, 컨트롤, NVDA키만을 modifier키로 사용하는 것입니다.

++ 기호 발음의 고급 커스터마이징 ++
[구두점/기호 발음 #SymbolPronunciation] 대화상자를 사용하여 작업하지 않고서도 구두점 및 다른 기호들을 커스터마이징 할 수 있습니다.
예를 들어 원래 그대로의 기호를 음성 엔진에 보내야 할지 그렇지 않을지를 지정할 수 있고(예: 띄어 읽기나 억양 변경) 사용자 기호를 추가할 수 있습니다.

이를 수행하려면 사용자 환경 설정 디렉토리의 기호 발음 정보 파일을 편집해야 합니다.
이 파일은 symbols-xx.dic이며, 여기서 xx는 언어 코드입니다.
이 파일의 형식은 NVDA 개발자 안내서의 기호 발음 섹션에 설명되어 있고, [NVDA 웹 사이트 NVDA_URLwiki/Development의 개발 섹션]을 참조하세요.
하지만 사용자는 복합 기호를 정의할 수 없습니다.

+ 더 상세한 정보 +
NVDA에 관하여 더 많은 정보와 도움이 필요하다면 NVDA 웹 사이트 NVDA_URL를 방문해 주세요.
여기에서 여러분은 추가적인 문서 뿐만 아니라 기술 지원 및 커뮤니티 리소스를 찾아 보실 수 있습니다.
또한 이 웹사이트는 NVDA 개발에 관한 정보와 리소스를 제공합니다.
