[[!meta title="Processes"]]

## Acceptance ##
1. Developer writes addon 
2. Developer submits addon to the community 
3. Community considers the possibility of accepting the add-on through basic review (licensing, copyright considerations, security implications, etc.).
4. If requested by the author, perform more rigorous review.

	* 4.1. Check that the addon adds interesting/useful features. 
	* 4.2. Maybe can be merged with an existing addon or included in NVDA's core? 

	5. If community considers addon to be useful, accept. Addon status is now dev.

## Relesae and maintenance ##
6. Author releases the add-on and incorporates comments from reviewers and users.
7. Author requests reviews.

* 7.1: For major releases: before major version is released to check for license changes and other basic review.
* 7.2: For continuous releases, at least once a year.

8. Reviewers and testers check the add-on doesn't contain harmful code and authorize to post on the add-ons website. 
9. Authors or reviewers (preferably authors) can release maintainance versions of the add-on to update translations or fix critical issues, notifying add-on changes on [add-ons mailing list][1]. 

## Deletion ##
10. Authors and reviewers should remove add-ons which contain harmful code, or if they become unuseful, for instance when NVDA implements their functionality, notifying this on add-ons mailing list. 

## Notes ##
1. If the addon author is also a community reviewer, s/he can not be the community reviewer for his/her addon. 
2. Users can be considered reviewers when they provide significant feedback, such as reporting bugs, suggestions and so on. 
3. Code will be considered to be harmful when, but not only, can change, delete or copy system or external files without a clear and useful purpose, produces Internet connections without a justified reason, etc. 
4. Authors should discuss certain aspects of add-ons if they believe copyrights and licensing falls under a gray area (such as synthesizer licenses).
5. For addons, master branch is equivalent to NVDA next, i.e. considered for testing purposes. Stable branch is considered to have had some testing and should be relatively error free/ok to run on your system. 
6. Stable branch will receive translation updates if the add-on is translatable. 
7. Authors and reviewers are strongly encouraged to follow our [guidelines][2], to ensure the quality of community add-ons. 
8. If add-on authors can't continue a required work, they can be replaced by another maintainer three months after the first request. 

[1]: http://www.freelists.org/list/nvda-addons

[2]: http://addons.nvda-project.org/files/get.php?file=gl
