最近更新


%!includeconf: ../changes.t2tconf

= 2018.3 =

== 新特性 ==
- 当Mozilla Firefox中的网页适当暴露时，NVDA将报告语法错误。 (#8280)
- 当BrailleNote用作带NVDA的盲文显示器时，增加了对BrailleNote QT和Apex BT的滚轮的支持。 (#6316)
- 在Foobar2000中添加了用于报告当前曲目的已用时间和总时间的脚本。 (#6596)


== 修改 ==
- “NVDA常规设置”对话框中可用语言的列表现在将根据语言名称进行排序而不是ISO 639代码。 (#7284)
- 为所有支持的Freedom Scientific盲文显示器添加alt shift标签和windows标签的默认手势。 (#7387)
- 现在，用户在自动检查更新或重新安装NVDA后会提示是否向NV Access发送NVDA使用数据，NVDA启动时会询问用户一次。 (#8217)
- 当重装或检查更新时，如果用户同意向NV Access发送使用统计数据，NVDA现在将发送当前使用的合成器驱动程序和盲文显示器的名称，以帮助更好地确定这些驱动程序的未来开发顺序。 (#8217)


== 错误修复 ==


== 开发者更改 ==
- Added scriptHandler.script, which can function as a decorator for scripts on scriptable objects. (#6266)


= 2018.2 =
此版本的亮点包括支持Kindle的PC表格，支持Humanwear BrailleNote Touch和BI14盲文显示器，Onecore和Sapi5语音合成器的改进，Microsoft Outlook的改进等等。

== 新特性 ==
- NVDA 现在能用语音和盲文报告表格单元格的行和列范围。 (#2642)
- Google文档现已支持NVDA表格的导航命令 以及（启用盲文模式）。 (#7946)
- NVDA 当前已支持在 Kindle 上的 表格阅读 和 导航 操作。(#7977)
- 通过USB和蓝牙支持BrailleNote touch和Brailliant BI 14盲文显示器。 (#6524)
- 在Windows 10 Fall Creators Update及更高版本中，NVDA可以报告来自应用程序（例如Calculator和Windows Store）的通知。 (#8045)
- 新盲文表：立陶宛8点，乌克兰语，蒙古语2级。 (#7839)
- 添加了一个脚本来报告特定盲文单元下文本的格式信息。 (#7106)
- 更新NVDA时，现在可以推迟将更新安装到计算机。 (#4263) 
- 新增翻译: 蒙古语,瑞士德语.
- 您现在可以从盲文键盘切换控制，移位，替代，窗口和NVDA，并将这些修饰符与盲文输入（例如按下控制键+ s）进行组合。 (#7306)
 - 您可以使用输入手势对话框中仿真系统键盘键下的命令来分配这些新的修改器切换。
- 恢复对Handy Tech Braillino和Modular（带有旧固件）的盲文显示器的支持。 (#8016)
- 支持的Handy Tech设备（如Active Braille和Active Star）的日期和时间现在会在NVDA超过五秒钟不同步时自动同步。 (#8016)


== 更改 ==
- NVDA 插件管理器中的状态列已更改，以提示插件是启用还是禁用，而不是运行或挂起。 (#7929)
- 更新 liblouis 盲文 翻译器到3.5.0。 (#7839)
- 立陶宛盲文表已更名为立陶宛6点，以避免与新的8点立陶宛盲文混淆。 (#7839)
- 法国（加拿大）1级和2级表已被删除。将分别使用法语（统一）6点计算机盲文和2级盲文表。 (#7839)
- Alva BC6，EuroBraille和Papenmeier盲文显示器上的次要路由按钮现在报告该按钮的盲文单元下文本的格式信息。 (#7106)
- 在不可编辑的情况下（即没有光标或浏览模式的控件），缩小盲文输入表将自动回退到未收缩模式。 (#7306)
- NVDA 现在可以分配输入手势以临时禁用所有配置文件触发器。 (#4935)
- 现在，所有NVDA的首选项都可以在NVDA菜单 - >首选项 - >设置下的一个设置对话框中找到，而不是通过许多对话框进行分散。 (#7302)
- 在Windows 10上当前运行的默认语音合成器现在是oneCore语音而不是eSpeak。 (#8176)


== 错误修复 ==
- 输入电子邮件地址后，NVDA不再无法在设置中的Microsoft帐户登录屏幕中阅读集中控件。 (#7997)
- 返回到Microsoft Edge中的上一页时，NVDA不再无法读取页面。 (#7997)
- 随着机器解锁，NVDA将不再错误地宣布Windows 10登录PIN的最终字符。 (#7908)
- Chrome和Firefox中复选框和单选按钮的标签在选项卡或在浏览模式下使用快速导航时不再报告两次。 (#7960)
- 将Aria目前的值设为"false"而不是"true"。 (#7892)。
- 如果配置的语音已被卸载，则Windows Onecore语音合成器驱动程序不再无法加载。 (#7999)
- 改变Windows Onecore Voices合成器驱动程序中的声音，现在速度要比原来要快得多。 (#7999)
- 修复了多个盲文桌面的格式错误盲文输出，包括8点缩写丹麦盲文的大写签名。 (#7526, #7693)
- NVDA现在可以在Microsoft Word中报告更多的子弹类型。 (#6778)
- 按报告格式化脚本不再错误地移动reviewPosition并因此多次按下它不再给出不同的结果。 (#7869)
- 盲文输入不再允许您在不受支持的情况下使用缩写盲文(即，整个单词将不再在文本内容和浏览模式之外发送到系统)。 (#7306)
- 修复Handy Tech简易盲文和盲文波显示器的固定连接稳定性问题。 (#8016)
- 在Windows 8和更高版本中，打开快速链接菜单时，NVDA将不再宣布“未知”）Windows + X）并从此菜单中选择项目。 (#8137)
- Hims显示器上按钮的模型特定手势现在按照用户指南中的说明进行操作。 (#8096)
- NVDA现在将尝试纠正导致Firefox和Internet Explorer等程序无法访问的系统COM注册问题，并通过NVDA报告“未知”。 (#2807)
- 解决任务管理器中的错误，导致NVDA不允许用户访问有关进程的特定详细信息的内容。 (#8147)
- 当Outlook日历中的约会或时间段覆盖一整天时，NVDA现在不会变得冗长。 (#7949)
- 较新的Microsoft SAPI5语音在语音结束时不再滞后，因此使用这些语音导航效率会更高。 (#8174)
- 在最近版本的Windows中访问时钟时，NVDA不再以盲文或按字符语音报告（LTR和RTL标记）。 (#5729)
- 在一些文本控件中，特别是在Delphi应用程序中，提供的关于编辑和导航的信息现在更加可靠。 (#8102)
- Hims Smart Beetle盲文显示器上滚动键的检测再次不再不可靠。 (#6086)
- 在Windows 10 RS5中，当使用alt +tab切换任务时，NVDA不再报告额外的冗余信息。(#8258)


== 开发者更改 ==
- The developer info for UIA objects now contains a list of the UIA patterns available. (#5712)
- App modules can now force certain windows to always use UIA by implementing the isGoodUIAWindow method. (#7961)
- The hidden boolean flag "outputPass1Only" in the braille section of the configuration has again been removed. Liblouis no longer supports pass 1 only output. (#7839)


= 2018.1.1 =
这是NVDA的一个特别版本，它解决了Onecore Windows语音合成器驱动程序中的一个错误，这使得它在Windows 10 Redstone 4（1803）中以更高的音调和速度朗读。 (#8082)  


= 2018.1 =
此版本的亮点包括支持Microsoft word和PowerPoint中的图表，支持新的盲文显示，包括Eurobraille和Optelec协议转换器，改进对Hims和Optelec盲文显示器的支持，Mozilla Firefox 58及更高版本的性能改进等等。

== 新特性 ==
- 现在可以与Microsoft Word和Microsoft PowerPoint中的图表进行互动，类似于Microsoft Excel中对图表的现有支持。 (#7046)
- 在Microsoft Word中：当处于浏览模式时，将光标移至嵌入的图表并按下回车键以与其交互。
- 在Microsoft PowerPoint中将幻灯片：选项卡编辑到图表对象时，并按下输入或空格与图表进行交互。
 - 要停止与图表交互，请按转义键。
- 新的语言：吉尔吉斯语。
- 增加了对VitalSource书架的支持。 (#7155)
- 增加了对Optelec协议转换器的支持，该转换器允许使用ALVA BC6通信协议使用Braille Voyager和Satellite显示器。 (#6731)
- 现在可以使用带ALVA 640 Comfort盲文显示器的盲文输入。 (#7733) 
 - NVDA的盲文输入功能可用于这些以及固件3.0.0及以上版本的其他BC6显示器。
- 早期支持启用盲文模式的Google表格。 (#7935)
- 支持Eurobraille Esys，Esytime和Iris盲文显示器。 (#7488)


== 更改 ==
- HIMS Braille Sense / Braille EDGE / Smart Beetle和Hims Sync盲文显示器驱动器已被名司机所取代。新的驱动程序将自动为以前的syncBraille驱动程序用户激活。 (#7459) 
 - 有些键，特别是滚动键，已被重新分配以遵循Hims产品使用的惯例。请参阅用户指南了解更多详情。
- 通过触摸交互使用屏幕键盘进行打字时，默认情况下，您现在需要按照与激活其他任何控件相同的方式来敲击每个按键。 (#7309)
 - 要使用现有的“触摸打字”模式，只需将手指从键上抬起即可将其激活，在“首选项”菜单中的新触摸交互设置对话框中启用该选项。
- 不再需要明确地将盲文连接到焦点或审查，因为这会默认自动发生。 (#2385) 
 - 请注意，只有在使用审阅光标或对象导航命令时才会进行自动复审。滚动不会激活这种新行为。


== 错误修复 ==
- 当NVDA安装在具有非ASCII字符的路径上时，可快速按NVDA + f两次快速显示当前格式的可浏览消息不再失败。 (#7474)
- 当从另一个应用程序返回Spotify时，焦点现在再次正确恢复。 (#7689)
- 在Windows 10 Fall Creaters更新中，从Windows Defender安全中心启用受控文件夹访问时，NVDA不会再报错。 (#7696)
- Hims Smart Beetle显示器上滚动键的检测不再不可靠。 (#6086)
- 在Mozilla Firefox 58及更高版本中渲染大量内容时，性能略有改善。 (#7719)
- 在Microsoft Outlook中，阅读包含表格的电子邮件不会再导致报错。 (#6827)
- 如果一个或多个涉及的手势是特定于模型的，则盲文显示器手势模拟系统键盘键修改器现在也可以与其他仿真系统键盘键组合。 (#7783)
- 在Mozilla Firefox中，浏览模式现在可以在由LastPass和bitwarden等扩展创建的弹出窗口中正常工作。 (#7809)
- 如果Firefox或Chrome停止响应（例如由于冻结或崩溃），NVDA不再有时会冻结每次焦点更改。 (#7818)
- 在Chicken等Twitter客户端，NVDA在阅读时不会忽略最后280个推文字符。 (#7828)
- NVDA现在在选择文本时通知符号时使用正确的语言。 (#7687)
- 在最新版本的Office 365中，可以使用上下箭头键再Excel图表中进行导航。 (#7046)
- 在语音和盲文输出中，控制状态现在总是以相同的顺序报告，无论它们是正面还是负面。 (#7076)
- 在Windows 10 Mail等应用程序中，NVDA在按退格键时不会再报读删除字符。 (#7456)
- Hims Braille Sense Polaris显示器上的所有按键现在都按预期工作。 (#7865)
- NVDA no longer fails to start on Windows 7 complaining about an internal api-ms dll, when a particular version of the Visual Studio 2017 redistributables have been installed by another application. (#7975)


== 开发者更改 ==
- Added a hidden boolean flag to the braille section in the configuration: "outputPass1Only". (#7301, #7693, #7702) 
 - This flag defaults to true. If false, liblouis multi pass rules will be used for braille output.
- A new dictionary (braille.RENAMED_DRIVERS) has been added to allow for smooth transition for users using drivers that have been superseded by others. (#7459)
- Updated comtypes package to 1.1.3. (#7831)
- Implemented a generic system in braille.BrailleDisplayDriver to deal with displays which send confirmation/acknowledgement packets. See the handyTech braille display driver as an example. (#7590, #7721)
- A new "isAppX" variable in the config module can be used to detect if NVDA is running as a Windows Desktop Bridge Store app. (#7851)
- For document implementations such as NVDAObjects or browseMode that have a textInfo, there is now a new documentBase.documentWithTableNavigation class that can be inherited from to gain standard table navigation scripts. Please refer to this class to see which helper methods must be provided by your implementation for table navigation to work. (#7849)
- The scons batch file now better handles when  Python 3 is also installed, making use of the launcher to specifically launch python 2.7 32 bit. (#7541)
- hwIo.Hid now takes an additional parameter exclusive, which defaults to True. If set to False, other applications are allowed to communicate with a device while it is connected to NVDA. (#7859)


= 2017.4 =
此版本的亮点包括许多Web支持的修复和功能增强，包括在Web对话框中的浏览模式支持，更好地朗读表单区元素标签，支持Windows Defender Application Guard和Windows 10 ARM x64等新的Windows 10技术，且可自动朗读屏幕方向和电池状态。
请注意，此版本的NVDA不再支持Windows XP或Windows Vista。现在，NVDA的最低系统要求是Windows 7 Service Pack 1。

== 新特性 ==
- 在浏览模式下，可以使用容器跳转快捷键（或shift +，）来在路标的开始点和结束点之间跳转。（＃5482）
- 在Firefox，Chrome和Internet Explorer中，编辑框和表单区的快速导航键现在包含可编辑的富文本容器（如contentEditable）。（＃5534）
- 在Web浏览器中，元素列表现在可以列出表单区和按钮（＃588）
- 初步支持运行在arm64架构的windows10。（＃7508）
- 通过math accessible，支持在Kindo电子书中提供的数学内容的阅读和可交互式浏览。（＃7536）
- 增加了对Azardi电子书阅读器的支持。（＃5848）
- 插件更新时朗读插件版本信息。（＃5324）
- 增加了新的命令行参数来创建NVDA的便携副本。（＃6329）
- 支持嵌入到Windows Defender Application Guard的Microsoft Edge浏览器（＃7600）
- 如果在笔记本电脑或平板电脑上运行的时候，NVDA现在将提示充电器何时连接/断开连接，以及屏幕方向是否改变。（＃4574，＃4612）
- 新的语言：马其顿语。
- 新的盲文翻译表：克罗地亚语1级点字，越南语1级点字（＃7518，＃7565）
- 增加了对Handy Tech的Actilino盲文显示器的支持。（＃7590）
- 支持Handy Tech盲文点显器的盲文输入。（＃7590）


== 更改 ==
- NVDA支持的最低操作系统现在是Windows 7 Service Pack 1或Windows Server 2008 R2 Service Pack 1。（＃7546）
- Firefox和Chrome浏览器中的Web对话框现在自动使用浏览模式，除非对话框嵌入到了Web应用程序里（＃4493）
- 在浏览模式下，使用快速导航命令进行切换和移动时不再提示跳出容器（如列表和表格等），从而使导航更高效。（＃2591）
- 在Firefox和Chrome的浏览模式下，通过快速导航或Tab键切换时，表单区域组的名称将被读出。（＃3321）
- 在浏览模式下，嵌入式对象（o和shift + o）的快速导航命令现在包括音频和视频元素以及具有咏叹调角色应用程序和对话框的元素（＃7239）
- Espeak-ng已经更新到1.49.2，解决了一些生成发布版本时产生的问题。（＃7385，＃7583）
- 连按三次“读取状态栏”命令，其内容将被复制到剪贴板。（＃1785）
- 将手势分配给Baum点显器按键时，可以将其限制为正在使用的·点显器型号（例如VarioUltra或Pronto）（＃7517）
- 浏览模式中，元素列表中过滤器编辑框的热键已经从alt + f变成了alt + e。（＃7569）
- 为浏览模式添加了一个未绑定的命令，以实时切换包含的布局表格。（＃7634）
- 升级liblouis盲文翻译到3.3.0。（＃7565）
- “字典”对话框中正则表达式单选按钮的热键已经从alt + r变成了alt + e。（＃6782）
- 语音词典文件现在已经过版本控制，并已被移到“speechDicts / voiceDicts.v1”目录。（＃7592）
- 当使用启动器运行NVDA时，不再保存版本文件的配置修改（如用户配置，语音词典）。（＃7688）
- Handy Tech生产的Braillino，Bookworm和Modular（带旧固件）盲文显示器不再支持开箱即用。  - 请安装  Handy Tech通用驱动器和NVDA插件来使用这些点显器。（＃7590） 


== 开发者更改 ==
- "scons tests" now checks that translatable strings have translator comments. You can also run this alone with "scons checkPot". (#7492)
- There is now a new extensionPoints module which provides a generic framework to enable code extensibility at specific points in the code. This allows interested parties to register to be notified when some action occurs (extensionPoints.Action), to modify a specific kind of data (extensionPoints.Filter) or to participate in deciding whether something will be done (extensionPoints.Decider). (#3393)
- You can now register to be notified about configuration profile switches via the config.configProfileSwitched Action. (#3393)
- Braille display gestures that emulate system keyboard key modifiers (such as control and alt) can now be combined with other emulated system keyboard keys without explicit definition. (#6213) 
 - For example, if you have a key on your display bound to the alt key and another display key to downArrow, combining these keys will result in the emulation of alt+downArrow.
- The braille.BrailleDisplayGesture class now has an extra model property. If provided, pressing a key will generate an additional, model specific gesture identifier. This allows a user to bind gestures limited to a specific braille display model. 
 - See the baum driver as an example for this new functionality.
- NVDA is now compiled with Visual Studio 2017 and the Windows 10 SDK. (#7568)


= 2017.3 =
此版本的亮点包括缩写盲文输入支持，Windows 10上可用的新Windows OneCore语音支持，Windows 10 内置 OCR支持，以及盲文和网络的许多重大改进。

== 新特性 ==
- 添加了盲文设置“无限期显示消息”。 (#6669)
- 在Microsoft Outlook消息列表中，NVDA现在会读出消息是否已经标记。 (#)6374)
- 在Microsoft PowerPoint中，当编辑幻灯片时，现在会报告形状的确切类型（例如三角形，圆形，视频或箭头），而不仅提示“形状”。 (#7111)
- Google Chrome 现已支持以MathML格式提供的数学内容。 (#7184)
- NVDA现在可以使用Windows 10中包含的新的Windows OneCore语音（也称为Microsoft Mobile语音）。您可以通过在NVDA的“合成器”对话框中选择Windows OneCore语音来访问这些声音。 (#6159)
- NVDA用户配置文件现在可以存储在用户的本地应用程序数据文件夹中。这是通过注册表中的设置启用的。有关详细信息，请参阅“用户指南”中的“系统参数”。 (#6812)
- 在网络浏览器中，NVDA现在可报告字段的占位符值（其实就是，现在支持aria-placeholder）。 (#7004)
- 在Microsoft Word的浏览模式下，现在可以使用快速导航按键（w和shift + w）导航到拼写错误。 (#6942)
- 添加对Microsoft Outlook约会对话框中的“日期”选择器控件的支持。 (#7217)
- 自动显示的建议现在在Windows 10 Mail to / cc编辑框和Windows 10设置搜索编辑框中都可自动读出。 (#6241)
- 当Windows 10中的某些搜索编辑框中显示了建议时，使用声音提示（例如，启动屏幕，设置搜索，Windows 10邮件到/ cc编辑框）。 (#6241)
-  NVDA现在可以自动在Skype for Business Desktop中报告通知，例如当有人与您开始对话时。 (#7281)
-  NVDA现在在Skype for Business对话中自动报告传入的聊天消息。 (#7286)
- NVDA现在可自动朗读Microsoft Edge的通知，例如下载开始时的通知。 (#7281)
- 您可以使用盲文键盘在盲文点显器上输入简写和未简写盲文。有关详细信息，请参阅用户指南的盲文输入部分。 (#2439)
- 您现在可以通过在 点字设置里选择 Unicode 盲文表，然后使用点显器上的点字键盘的方式输入Unicode 字符。 (#6449)
- 增加了在台湾使用的超点盲文点显器的支持。 (#7352)
- 新盲文翻译表：丹麦8点电脑点字，立陶宛语盲文点字，波斯语8点电脑点字，波斯语一级点字，斯洛维尼亚语8点电脑点字。 (#6188,#6550,#6773,#7367)
- 改进英文（美国）8点电脑盲文点字，包括支持着重号，欧元符号和重音字母。 (#6836)
- NVDA现在可以使用Windows 10中包含的OCR功能来识别图像文本或无法访问的应用程序。 (#7361)
 - 可以从NVDA首选项中的新Windows 10 OCR对话框中设置该语言。
 - 要识别当前导航对象的内容，请按NVDA + r。
 - 有关详细信息，请参阅“用户指南”的“内容识别”部分。
- 您现在可以选择在盲文设置对话框中使用新的“焦点上下文呈现”设置对象获得焦点时盲文点显器上显示的上下文信息。 (#217)
 - 例如，“上下文更改时填充显示”和“仅当回滚时”选项可以使列表和菜单浏览更加高效，因为这些项目不会持续更改其在显示器上的位置。
 - 有关详细信息和示例，请参阅“用户指南”中“焦点上下文呈现”设置的一节。
- 在Firefox和Chrome中，NVDA现在支持复杂的动态网格，例如只有一些内容可能被加载或显示的电子表格（具体来说，在ARIA 1.1中引入的aria-rowcount，aria-colcount，aria-rowindex和aria-colindex属性）。 (#7410)


== 更改 ==
- 添加未绑定的命令“重新启动 NVDA”,可以根据需要使用。您可以在“输入手势”对话框的“杂项”类别中找到它。 （＃6396）
- 现在可以从NVDA欢迎对话框中设置键盘布局。 (#6863)
- 更多的控件类型和状态已被缩写为盲文，地标也被缩写。请参阅“用户指南”中的“盲文”下的“控件类型，状态和地标缩写”，以获取完整列表。 (#7188,#3975)
- 将eSpeak NG更新为1.49.1。 (#7280)
- 盲文设置对话框中的输出表和输入表现在按字母顺序排列。 (#6113)
- liblouis盲文翻译器更新到3.2.0。 (#6935)
- 默认盲文表现在是统一英语盲文代码一级点字(#6952)
- 默认情况下，NVDA现在只会在点显器显示对象获得焦点后更新了的上下文部分。 (#217)
- 以前，它总是显示尽可能多的上下文信息，无论您以前是否看过相同的上下文信息。
 - 您可以通过将“盲文设置”对话框中的新“焦点上下文呈现”设置更改为“始终填充显示”来恢复旧的行为。
- 当盲文光标被捆绑到焦点或者浏览光标时，光标可以被配置为不同的形状 (#7112)
- NVDA徽标已更新。更新的NVDA标志是一个白色的风格化的字母NVDA混搭，带有紫色背景。这将确保它在任何颜色背景上可见，并使用NV Access徽标中的紫色。 (#7446)


== 错误修复 ==
- 在Chrome中，可编辑的 div 元素在浏览模式下不再将其标签报告为其值。 (#＃7153)
- 在浏览模式下，在空的Microsoft Word文档按下 行尾键 不再导致运行时错误。 (#7009)
- Microsoft Edge的浏览模式已经正确支持，其中文档已被赋予文档的特定ARIA角色。 (#6998)
- 在浏览模式下，即使系统焦点位于行的最后一个字符，您仍然可以使用shift + end来选择或取消选择该行的末尾。 (#7157)
- 如果对话框包含进度条，则进度条更改时，对话框文本现在将以盲文更新。例如，现在可以在NVDA的“下载更新”对话框中读取剩余时间。 (#6862)
- NVDA现在将朗读某些Windows 10组合框的选择更改，例如“设置”中的“自动播放”。 (#6337)
- 在Microsoft Outlook中进入会议/约会创建对话框时，不再朗读无意义的信息。 (#7216)
- 仅当进度条输出被配置为包含提示音时，才会为不确定的进度条对话框（如更新检查器）发出提示音。 (#6759)
- 在Microsoft Excel 2003和2007中，在工作表周围浏览时，会再次读出单元格。 (#7243)
- 在Windows 10创建者更新和更高版本中，在Windows 10 Mail中阅读电子邮件时，浏览模式将再次自动启用。 (#7289)
- 在带有盲文键盘的大多数盲文点显器上，点7现在将擦除最后输入的盲文单元格或字符，点8按下回车键。 (#6054)
- 在可编辑文本中，当移动输入焦点时（例如使用光标键或退格键），NVDA的语音反馈在许多情况下更加准确，特别是在Chrome和终端应用程序中。 (#6424)
- 现在可以读取Microsoft Outlook 2016中签名编辑器的内容。 (#7253)
- 在Java Swing应用程序中，NVDA不再有时导致应用程序在浏览表时崩溃。 (#6992)
- 在Windows 10创作者更新中，NVDA将不再多次宣布弹出通知。 (#7128)
- 在Windows 10的开始菜单中，按回车见结束搜索并关闭开始菜单后，NVDA将不再朗读搜索文本。 (#7370)
- 快速导航到Microsoft Edge中的标题现在明显更快。 (#7343)
- 在Microsoft Edge中，浏览模式不再跳过某些网页的大部分，例如Wordpress 2015主题。 (#7143)
- 在Microsoft Edge中，地标正确地以不同于英语的语言本地化。 (#7328)
- 当选择文本超出显示宽度时，盲文现在正确地跟随选择。例如，如果您使用shift + downArrow选择多行，则盲文现在将显示您选择的最后一行。 (#5770)
- 在Firefox中，在twitter.com上打开tweet的详细信息时，NVDA不再胡乱地朗读“区域”。 (#5741)
- 表格导航命令不再适用于浏览模式中的布局表格，除非已启用布局表格的读取。 (#7382)
- 在Firefox和Chrome中，浏览模式表格导航命令现在跳过隐藏的表格单元格。 (#6652,#5655)


== 开发者更改 ==
- Timestamps in the log now include milliseconds. (#7163)
- NVDA must now be built with Visual Studio Community 2015. Visual Studio Express is no longer supported. (#7110)
 - The Windows 10 Tools and SDK are now also required, which can be enabled when installing Visual Studio.
 - See the Installed Dependencies section of the readme for additional details.
- Support for content recognizers such as OCR and image description tools can be easily implemented using the new contentRecog package. (#7361)
- The Python json package is now included in NVDA binary builds. (#3050)


= 2017.2 =
此版本的亮点包括在Windows 10创作者更新中完全支持音频闪避;修复浏览模式下的几个选择问题，包括全选的问题;Microsoft Edge支持的重大改进;和web支持上的改进，例如标记为当前（使用aria-current）的元素的提示。

== 新特性 ==
- 现在可以使用NVDA + f在Microsoft Excel中报告单元格边框信息。 (#3044)
- 在网络浏览器中，NVDA现在可提示元素何时被标记为当前（其实就是使用aria-current属性）。 (#6358)
- 支持 Microsoft Edge 的自动语言切换。 (#6852)
- 增加了对Windows 10 Enterprise LTSB（长期服务分支）和服务器版的 Windows 计算器的支持。 (#6914)
- 当快速按下读取当前行的命令三次时，将使用字符描述信息拼读该行。 (#6893)
- 新语言：缅甸语
- Unicode 编码的 向上和向下箭头以及小部分符号现在可正确的朗读。 (#3805)


== 更改 ==
- 当使用简易浏览模式浏览应用程序中的 UI Automation 内容时，更多的无关对象被忽略了，使导航变得更加容易。 (#6948, #6950)


== 错误修复 ==
- 在浏览模式下，现在可以激活网页菜单项。 (#6735)
- 在配置文件“确认删除”对话框处于活动状态时，按下“esc”键现在将关闭该对话框。 (#6851)
- 修复Mozilla Firefox和其他启用了多进程功能的其他Gecko应用程序中的一些崩溃。 (#6885)
- 当文字绘制在透明背景下，使用屏幕浏览时背景颜色的颜色读取变得更加准确了。 (#6467)
- 改进了对Internet Explorer 11网页上提供的控件说明的支持（具体来说，支持iframe中使用的 aria-describedby 属性，并提供多个ID）。 (#5784)
- 在 Windows 10 创作者更新中，NVDA 的音频闪避再次与以前的 Windows 版本拥有相同的支持（即包括“发出声音及语音时闪避”、“总是闪避”和“不闪避”几个模式）。
- NVDA 将不会因为当前的UIA 元素没有指定快捷键而造成浏览或朗读失败。(#6779)
- 两个连续空格将不会被添加到当前(UIA) 控件的快捷键描述中去。(#6790)
- HIMS 显示器上的某些键组合（例如space + dot4）不再间歇性地操作失败。 (#3157)
- 解决了在使用英语以外的某些语言的系统上打开串行端口时某些情况下产生的连接盲文显示器失败的问题。 (#6845)
- 减少Windows关闭时配置文件损坏的可能性。在更换实际的配置文件之前，配置文件将被写入到临时文件中去。 (#3165)
- 当快速按下读取当前行命令两次来拼写行内容时，将可使用正确的语言进行字符拼读。 (#6726)
- 在Windows 10 创作者更新中，Microsoft Edge中的行浏览速度提高了三倍 (#6994)
- 在windows 10 创作者更新中，聚焦到 Microsoft Edge 浏览器的文档时，NVDA 将不再提示“Web运行时分组”。 (#6948)
- 支持所有现有版本的 SecureCRT。 (#6302)
- Adobe Acrobat Reader 不再在读取某些 PDF 文档（特别是那些包含空的ActualText属性的文档）时崩溃。 (#7021, #7034)
- 在 Microsoft Edge 中使用浏览模式时，可交互式表格(标有ARIA grids属性的表格)在使用 t 和 shift+t跳转时不会再被忽略。 (#6977)
- 在浏览模式中，使用 shift+home键选择到行首时，原本处于系统焦点后面的内容现在将可正常的取消选中。 (#5746)
- 在浏览模式中， 当系统焦点不再文本开头时，修复无法使用全选(control+a) 命令进行全选的问题。 (#6909)
- 修复其他在浏览模式下进行选择的罕见问题。 (#7131)


== 开发者更改 ==
- Commandline arguments are now processed with Python's argparse module, rather than optparse. This allows certain options such as -r and -q to be handled exclusively. (#6865)
- core.callLater now queues the callback to NVDA's main queue after the given delay, rather than waking the core and executing it directly. This stops possible freezes due to the  core accidentally going to sleep after processing a callback, in the midle of  a modal call such as the desplaying of a message box. (#6797)
- The InputGesture.identifiers property has been changed so that it is no longer normalized. (#6945)
 - Subclasses no longer need to normalize identifiers before returning them from this property.
 - If you want normalized identifiers, there is now an InputGesture.normalizedIdentifiers property which normalizes the identifiers returned by the identifiers property .
- The InputGesture.logIdentifier property is now deprecated. Callers should use InputGesture.identifiers[0] instead. (#6945)
- Removed some deprecated code:
 - `speech.REASON_*` constants: `controlTypes.REASON_*` should be used instead. (#6846)
 - `i18nName` for synth settings: `displayName` and `displayNameWithAccelerator` should be used instead. (#6846, #5185)
 - `config.validateConfig`. (#6846, #667)
 - `config.save`: `config.conf.save` should be used instead. (#6846, #667)
- The list of completions in the autocomplete context menu of the PythonConsole no longer shows  any objec path leading up to the final symbol being completed. (#7023)
- There is now a unit testing framework for NVDA. (#7026)
 - Unit tests and infrastructure are located in the tests/unit directory. See the docstring in the tests\unit\__init__.py file for details.
 - You can run tests using "scons tests". See the "Running Tests" section of readme.md for details.
 - If you are submitting a pull request for NVDA, you should first run the tests and ensure they pass.


= 2017.1 =
此版本主要支持包括报告Microsoft Word中的章节和文本列;支持在Kindle上阅读，导航和注释电子书;并改进了Microsoft Edge浏览器。

== 新特性 ==
- 在Microsoft Word中，现在可以报告页码。可以从文档格式对话框中的“报告页码”复选框启用或关闭。 (#5946)
- 在Microsoft Word中，现在可以报告文本列。这是通过文档格式对话框中的“报告页码”选项启用的。 (#5946)
- 写字板现在支持自动语言切换。 (#6555)
- Microsoft Edge中的浏览模式现在支持NVDA find命令（NVDA + control + f）。 (#6580)
- Microsoft Edge现在支持浏览模式（b和shift + b）中的按钮快速导航。 (#6577)
- 在Microsoft Excel中复制工作表时，现在会记住列和行的标题。 (#6628)
- 支持在Kindle1.19版本阅读和浏览书籍，包括访问链接，脚注，图形，突出显示文本和用户注释。有关详细信息，请参阅NVDA用户指南的Kindle for PC部分。 (#6247, #6638)
- Microsoft Edge当前支持浏览模式表导航。 (#6594)
- 当前Microsoft Excel可以报告工作表的名称和单元格位置，快捷键（台式机：NVDA + numpadDelete，笔记本：NVDA +delete）。 (#6613)
- 增加了一个退出对话框的选项，可以选择用调试级别记录重新启动NVDA。 (#6689)


== 更改 ==
- 最小盲文光标闪烁率现在为200毫秒。如果此前设置得较低，则会增加到200毫秒。 (#6470)
- 盲文设置对话框中添加了一个复选框，以允许启用/禁用盲文光标闪烁。以前使用零数值来控制这一功能。 (#6470)
- 更新eSpeak NG到（commit e095f008，2017年1月10日）。 (#6717)
- Due to changes In the Windows 10 Creators Update, the "Always duck" mode is no longer available in NVDA's Audio ducking settings. It is still available on older windows 10 releases. (#6684)
- Due to changes in the  Windows 10 Creators Update, the "Duck when outputting speech and sounds" mode can no longer ensure audio has ducked fully before starting to speak, nor will it keep audio ducked long enough after speaking to stop rappid bouncing in volume. These changes do not   affect older windows 10 releases. (#6684)


== Bug 修复 ==
- 修正在浏览模式下按段落移动大文档时Microsoft Word中的冻结。 (#6368)
- Microsoft Word中已从Microsoft Excel中复制的表格不再被布置为布局表格，因此不再被忽略。 (#5927)
- 当试图在受保护的视图中输入Microsoft Excel时，NVDA现在发出声音而不是报告没有输入的字符。 (#6570)
- 在Microsoft Excel中按退出不再错误地切换到浏览模式，除非用户先前已使用NVDA +空格显式切换到浏览模式，然后在通过表单字段上按Enter键进入焦点模式。 (#6569)
- NVDA不再冻结在整个行或列合并的Microsoft Excel电子表格中。 (#6216)
- 现在报告Microsoft Excel单元格中的裁剪/溢出文本应该更加准确。 (#6472)
- NVDA现在报告复选框是否是只读。 (#6563)
- 由于没有可用的音频设备，NVDA启动程序在不能播放标志声音时将不再显示警告对话框。 (#6289)
- Microsoft Excel功能区中不可用的控件现在按照这种方式报告。 (#6430)
- NVDA将在最小化窗口时不再公布“窗格”。 (#6671)
- 键入的字符现在可以在Windows 10创建者更新中的通用Windows平台（UWP）应用程序（包括Microsoft Edge）中被读出。 (#6017)
- 鼠标跟踪现在适用于多台显示器的计算机上的所有屏幕。 (#6598)
- 在关注滑块控件时，NVDA在退出Windows Media Player后不再无法使用。 (#5467)


== 开发者更改 ==
- Profiles and configuration files are now automatically upgraded to meet the requirements of schema modifications. If there is an error during upgrade, a notification is shown, the configuration is reset and the old configuration file is available in the NVDA log at 'Info' level. (#6470)


= 2016.4 =
此版本的亮点包括对Microsoft Edge的改进支持、浏览模式在Windows 10邮件应用程序的增强支持和NVDA的对话框布局的重大改进。

== 新特性 ==
- NVDA现在可以使用音调指示行缩进。这可以使用NVDA的“文档格式设置”对话框中的“行缩进提示方式”组合框进行配置。 (#5906)
- 支持 Orbit Reader20盲文点显器。 (#6007)
- 添加了一个在启动时打开语音查看器窗口的选项。这可以通过语音查看器窗口中的复选框来启用。 (#5050)
- 重新打开语音查看器窗口时，位置和尺寸将恢复原样。 (#5050)
- Microsoft Word 中的交叉引用字段现在被视为超链接对待，它们被报告为链接，并且可以被激活。 (#6102)
- 初步支持即将推出的Kindle版应用程序。 (#6247)
- 支持Baum SuperVario2，Baum Vario 340和HumanWare Brailliant2盲文显示器。 (#6116)
- 初步支持Microsoft Edge的周年更新。 (#6271)
- 在Windows 10邮件应用程序中阅读电子邮件时，现在可使用浏览模式。 (#6271)


== 更改 ==
- 更新liblouis盲文翻译为3.0.0。这包括对英语盲文的显着增强。 (#6109,#4194,#6220,#6140)
- 在插件管理器中，禁用插件和启用插件按钮现在具有键盘快捷键(分别为alt + d和alt + e)。 (#6388)
- NVDA对话框中的各种填充和对齐问题已解决。 (#6317,#5548,#6342,#6343,#6349)
- 已调整文档格式化对话框，以便滚动内容。 (#6348)
- 调整符号发音对话框的布局，以使对话框的全部宽度用于显示符号列表。 (#6101)
- 在浏览器的浏览模式下，编辑框(e和shift + e)和表单(f和shift + f)单字母导航命令现在可以用于移动到只读编辑框。 (#4164)
- 在NVDA的文档格式设置中，“朗读光标后面的格式化更改”已重命名为“指示光标后的格式更改”，因为它会影响盲文和语音的输出信息。 (#6336)
- 调整NVDA“欢迎”对话框的外观。 (#6350)
-  NVDA对话框的“确定”和“取消”按钮现在对话框右对齐。 (#6333)
- 旋转控件现在用于数字输入字段，如“语音设置”对话框中的“大写时音高变化的百分比”设置。您可以输入所需的值，或使用向上和向下箭头键来调整值。 (#6099)
- Firefox 的IFrame 提示方式已经和其他浏览器统一，都朗读为“框架”。 (#6047)


==错误修复==
- 修正了在语音查看器打开时退出NVDA时出现的罕见错误。 (#5050)
- Mozilla Firefox打开的图像地图现在可在浏览模式下按预期的呈现。 (#6051)
- 在字典对话框中，按“回车”键现在可保存您所做的任何更改并关闭对话框。以前，按“回车”键什么也没做。 (#6205)
- 更改输入法的(本地输入/字母数字，全角、半角等)的输入模式时，消息现在可用盲文显示。 (#5892，#5893)
- 禁用后立即重新启用插件，或者反过来，插件状态现在可正确地恢复到之前的状态。 (#6299)
- 使用Microsoft Word时，现在可以读取标题中的页码字段。 (#6004)
- 现在可以使用鼠标在符号列表和符号发音对话框中的编辑框之间移动焦点。 (#6312)
- 在Microsoft Word中的浏览模式下，修复了当文档包含无效超链接时停止显示元素列表的问题。 (#5886)
- 通过任务栏或alt + F4快捷键关闭后，NVDA菜单中的语音查看器复选框现在将反映窗口的实际可见性。 (#6340)
-  “重新载入插件”命令不再对触发的配置文件、Web浏览器中的新文档和屏幕浏览造成问题。 (#2892，#5380)
- 在NVDA的“常规设置”对话框的语言列表中，Windows 10上可正确的显示Aragonese等语言。(#6259)
- 现在，在输入帮助和输入手势对话框中，用配置的NVDA语言呈现模拟的系统键盘按键(例如盲文显示器上的按钮、其模拟按压标签键)。以前，他们总是用英语显示。 (#6212)
- 在重新启动NVDA之前，更改NVDA语言(从“常规设置”对话框)现在无效。 (#4561)
- 不允许留空“来源文本”编辑框创建为新的语音字典条目。 (#6412)
- 修正了一些罕见的问题，当扫描一些系统上的串行端口时，一些盲文显示驱动程序会变得不可用。 (#6462)
- 在Microsoft Word中，按单元格移动时，表格单元中的项目编号符号现在可被读取。 (#6446)
- 现在可以在NVDA输入手势对话框中为Handy Tech盲文显示驱动程序的按键分配手势。 (#6461)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，导航电子表格时按Enter键或numpadEnter现在可以正确地提示到了下一行。 (#6500)
- iTunes不再间歇性地冻结，可正常的使用浏览模式查看iTunes商店、Apple Music等(#6502)
- 修复了64位Mozilla和基于Chrome开发的应用程序的崩溃问题。 (#6497)
- 在启用了多进程的Firefox中，浏览模式和可编辑文本框现在可以正常工作。 (#6380)


==开发者更改==
- 现在可以为可执行文件提供在其名称中包含点(。)的应用程序模块。点用下划线(_)替换。 (#5323)
- 新的gui.guiHelper模块包括简化wxPython GUI创建的实用程序，包括自动管理间距。这有助于更好的视觉外观和一致性，以及易于为盲人开发人员创建新的GUI。 (#6287)


= 2016.3 =
此版本的亮点包括禁用单个插件的功能;支持Microsoft Excel中的表单字段;显着改善颜色报告;与几个盲文显示器相关的修复和改进;并修复和改进对Microsoft Word的支持。


== 新特性 ==
- 浏览模式现在可以用于在Windows 10周年更新中的Microsoft Edge中阅读PDF文档。 (#5740)
- 删除和双删除线现在报告如果适当在Microsoft Word中。 (#5800)
- 在Microsoft Word中，如果提供了表格，则会报告表格的标题。如果有描述，则可以在浏览模式下使用打开长描述命令(NVDA + d)进行访问。 (#5943)
- 在Microsoft Word中，NVDA现在在移动段落时报告位置信息(alt + shift +向下箭头和alt + shift +向上箭头)。 (#5945)
- 在Microsoft Word中，现在通过NVDA的报告格式化命令，当使用各种Microsoft字快捷键更改时，以及当移动到具有不同的行距，如果在NVDA的文档格式设置中打开报告行间距的文本报告行间距。 (#2961)
- 在Internet Explorer中，HTML5结构元素现在已被识别。 (#5591)
- 现在可以通过NVDA的文档格式设置对话框中的报告注释复选框禁用报告注释(例如在Microsoft Word中)。 (#5108)
- 现在可以在附加组件管理器中禁用单个附加组件。 (#3090)
- 为ALVA BC640 / 680系列盲文显示器添加了其他键分配。 (#5206)
- 现在有一个命令将盲文显示移动到当前焦点。目前，只有ALVA BC640 / 680系列具有分配给此命令的键，但如果需要，可以在“输入手势”对话框中为其他显示器手动分配。 (#5250)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，您现在可以与表单字段交互。您在浏览模式下使用元素列表或单字母导航移动到表单字段。 (#4953)
- 您现在可以使用“输入手势”对话框分配输入手势以切换简单的检查模式。 (#6173)


==更改==
- NVDA现在报告颜色使用一个基本的一套9色的色调和3种色调，亮度和亮度变化的基本。这不是使用更主观和更少理解的颜色名称。 (#6029)
- 现在的NVDA + F9然后NVDA + F10行为已经修改为在第一次按F10时选择文本。按F10两次(快速连续)时，文本将复制到剪贴板。 (#4636)
- 更新了eSpeak NG到版本Master 11b1a7b(2016年6月22日)。 (#6037)


==错误修复==
- 在Microsoft Word的浏览模式下，复制到剪贴板现在保留格式化。 (#5956)
- 在Microsoft Word中，NVDA现在使用Word自己的表导航命令(alt + home，alt + end，alt + pageUp和alt + pageDown)和表选择命令(添加到导航命令的shift)时适当报告。 (#5961)
- 在Microsoft Word对话框中，NVDA的对象导航已经大大改善。 (#6036)
- 在某些应用程序(如Visual Studio 2015)中，快捷键(例如控件+ c为复制)现在按预期报告。 (#6021)
- 修正了一些罕见的问题，当扫描一些系统上的串行端口，使一些盲文显示驱动程序不可用。 (#6015)
-  Microsoft Word中的报告颜色现在更准确，因为Microsoft Office主题的更改现在已被考虑在内。 (#5997)
- Microsoft Edge的浏览模式，并支持开始菜单搜索建议，再次可用于2016年4月后的Windows 10生成。(#5955)
- 在Microsoft Word中，自动表头读取在处理合并单元格时工作得更好。 (#5926)
- 在Windows 10邮件应用程序中，NVDA不再无法读取邮件的内容。 (#5635)
- 当命令键打开时，锁定键(如大写锁定键)不再公布两次。 (#5490)
- Windows用户帐户控制对话框在Windows 10周年更新中再次正确读取。 (#5942)
- 在Web会议插件(例如用于out-of-sight.net)NVDA不再发出哔哔声，并说出与麦克风输入有关的进度条更新。 (#5888)
- 如果原始查找区分大小写，则在浏览模式下执行查找下一个或查找上一个命令现在将正确执行区分大小写搜索。 (#5522)
- 当编辑字典条目时，现在给出无效正则表达式的反馈。如果字典文件包含无效的正则表达式，NVDA不再崩溃。 (#4834)
- 如果NVDA无法与盲文显示器通信(例如，因为它已断开连接)，它将自动禁用显示器的使用。 (#1555)
- 在某些情况下，稍微提高浏览模式元素列表中的过滤性能。 (#6126)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，NVDA报告的背景图案名称现在匹配Excel使用的背景图案名称。 (#6092)
- 改进了对Windows 10登录屏幕的支持，包括通知警报和触摸激活密码字段。 (#6010)
- NVDA现在可以正确检测ALVA BC640 / 680系列盲文显示器上的辅助路由按钮。 (#5206)
-  NVDA可以再次报告Windows Toast通知在最近的构建的Windows 10(#6096)
- NVDA不再偶尔停止识别在Baum兼容和HumanWare Brailliant B盲文显示器上的按键。 (#6035)
- 如果在NVDA的文档格式设置首选项中启用了行号的报告，则行号会显示在盲文显示屏上。 (#5941)
- 当语音模式关闭时，报告对象(例如按NVDA +选项卡报告焦点)现在会按预期显示在语音查看器中。 (#6049)
- 在Outlook 2016消息列表中，不再报告关联的草稿信息。 (#6219)
- 在Google Chrome和Chrome浏览器中使用非英语语言，浏览模式不再无法在许多文档中使用。 (#6249)


==开发者更改==
- 直接从属性记录信息不再导致该属性被反复调用一遍又一遍。 (#6122)


= 2016.2.1 =
此版本修复了Microsoft Word中的崩溃：

-  NVDA不再导致Microsoft Word在Windows XP中启动后立即崩溃。 (#6033)
- 删除了语法错误的报告，因为这会导致Microsoft Word崩溃。 (#5954，#5877)


= 2016.2 =
此版本的亮点包括在输入时指示拼写错误的功能;支持在Microsoft Word中报告语法错误;以及对Microsoft Office支持的改进和修复。

== 新特性 ==
- 在浏览模式下，在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，使用第一个字母导航移动注释(a和shift + a)现在移动到插入和删除的文本。 (#5691)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，NVDA现在报告一组单元格的级别，以及它是折叠还是展开。 (#5690)
- 按报表文本格式化命令(NVDA + f)两次以浏览模式显示信息，以便可以查看。 (#4908)
- 在Microsoft Excel 2010及更高版本中，现在报告单元格阴影和渐变填充。自动报告由NVDA的文档格式设置中的报告颜色选项控制。 (#3683)
- 新盲文翻译表：Koine希腊语。 (#5393)
- 在日志查看器中，现在可以使用快捷键control + s保存日志。 (#4532)
- 如果在聚焦控制中启用和支持拼写错误的报告，NVDA将播放声音，提醒您输入时发生拼写错误。在NVDA的键盘设置对话框中使用新的“在输入时播放拼写错误”选项可禁用此功能。 (#2024)
- 语法错误现在在Microsoft Word中报告。这可以使用NVDA的文档格式化首选项对话框中的新的“报告语法错误”选项禁用。 (#5877)


==更改==
- 在浏览模式和可编辑文本字段中，NVDA现在将numpadEnter与主输入键相同。 (#5385)
- NVDA已切换到eSpeak NG语音合成器。 (#5651)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，当单元格和标题之间有空行时，NVDA不再忽略单元格的列标题。 (#5396)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，现在已在标头之前公布坐标，以消除标题和内容之间的歧义。 (#5396)


==错误修复==
- 在浏览模式下，当尝试使用单字母导航移动到文档不支持的元素时，NVDA报告不支持此元素，而不是报告该方向上没有元素。 (#5691)
- 在Microsoft Excel中的元素列表中列出工作表时，现在包含仅包含图表的工作表。 (#5698)
- 在具有多个窗口的Java应用程序(如IntelliJ或Android Studio)中切换窗口时，NVDA不再报告无关信息。 (#5732)
- 在基于Scintilla的编辑器(如Notepad ++)中，使用盲文显示移动光标时，盲文现在可以正确更新。 (#5678)
- 启用盲文输出时，NVDA不再有时会崩溃。 (#4457)
- 在Microsoft Word中，段落缩进现在总是报告在用户选择的测量单位(例如厘米或英寸)中。 (#5804)
- 当使用盲文显示器时，许多之前只被说出的NVDA消息现在也被加粗。 (#5557)
- 在可访问的Java应用程序中，现在报告树视图项的级别。 (#5766)
- 修复了在某些情况下在Mozilla Firefox中的Adobe Flash中的崩溃。 (#5367)
- 在Google Chrome和Chrome浏览器中，对话框或应用程序中的文档现在可以以浏览模式阅读。 (#5818)
- 在Google Chrome和Chrome浏览器中，您现在可以强制NVDA在Web对话框或应用程序中切换到浏览模式。 (#5818)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，将焦点移动到某些控件(特别是使用aria-activedescendant的位置)不再错误地切换到浏览模式。例如，当在Gmail中撰写邮件时，转到地址字段中的建议时，就会发生这种情况。 (#5676)
- 在Microsoft Word中，当启用表行/列标题报告时，NVDA不再在大表中冻结。 (#5878)
- 在Microsoft Word中，NVDA不再错误地报告具有大纲级别(但不是内置的标题样式)作为标题的文本。 (#5186)
- 在Microsoft Word的浏览模式下，移动过去结束/开始容器命令(逗号和Shift +逗号)现在可用于表。 (#5883)


==开发者更改==
- NVDA的C ++组件现在使用Microsoft Visual Studio 2015构建(#5592)
- 您现在可以使用ui.browseableMessage以浏览模式向用户呈现文本或HTML消息。 (#4908)
- 在用户指南中，当将％kc：setting命令用于具有所有布局的公共键的设置时，此键现在可以放在全角冒号(:)和常规冒号(： )。 (#5739)


= 2016.1 =
此版本的亮点包括可选地降低其他声音的音量的能力;改进盲文输出和盲文显示支持;几个重大修复Microsoft Office支持;并修复iTunes中的浏览模式。

== 新特性 ==
- 新盲文翻译表：波兰8点电脑盲文，蒙古语。 (#5537，#5574)
- 您可以使用盲文设置对话框中的新显示光标和光标形状选项来关闭盲文光标并更改其形状。 (#5198)
- NVDA现在可以通过蓝牙连接到HIMS智能甲虫盲文显示器。 (#5607)
- 安装在Windows 8及更高版本时，NVDA可以选择降低其他声音的音量。这可以使用NVDA合成器对话框中的音频下拉模式选项或按NVDA + shift + d进行配置。 (#3830，#5575)
- 支持APH Refreshabraille在HID模式和Baum VarioUltra和Pronto！当通过USB连接时。 (#5609)
- 当协议设置为OpenBraille时，支持HumanWare Brailliant BI / B盲文显示器。 (#5612)


==更改==
- 强调的报告现在默认禁用。 (#4920)
- 在Microsoft Excel的“元素列表”对话框中，公式的快捷方式已更改为alt + r，因此它与“过滤器”字段的快捷方式不同。 (#5527)
- 更新liblouis盲文翻译为2.6.5。 (#5574)
- 将焦点或查看光标移动到文本对象时，不再报告“文本”一词。 (#5452)


==错误修复==
- 在iTunes 12中，浏览模式现在在新的页面加载在iTunes Store正确更新。 (#5191)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，使用单字母导航移动到特定标题级别现在会在为了辅助功能而覆盖标题级别(特别是当ria级别覆盖h标记级别时)正常工作。 (#5434)
- 在Spotify中，焦点不再经常到达“未知”对象。 (#5439)
- 从其他应用程序返回到Spotify时，现在可以正确恢复焦点。 (#5439)
- 当在浏览模式和聚焦模式之间切换时，模式以盲文和语音报告。 (#5239)
- 任务栏上的开始按钮不再作为列表和/或在某些版本的Windows中选择。 (#5178)
- 在Microsoft Outlook中撰写邮件时，不再报告诸如“插入”的邮件。 (#5486)
- 当使用盲文显示器并且在当前行上选择文本时(例如，当在文本编辑器中搜索在同一行上出现的文本时)，如果适当，则盲文显示器将被滚动。 (#5410)
- 在Windows 10中使用alt + f4关闭Windows命令控制台时，NVDA不再静默退出。(#5343)
- 在浏览模式下的元素列表中，当更改元素的类型时，“过滤依据”字段现在被清除。 (#5511)
- 在Mozilla应用程序中的可编辑文本中，再次移动鼠标将按预期读取相应的行，字等，而不是读取整个内容。 (#5535)
- 当在Mozilla应用程序中以可编辑文本移动鼠标时，不再停止在正在读取的字或行内的链接等元素上进行阅读。 (#2160，#5535)
- 在Internet Explorer中，shoprite.com网站现在可以以浏览模式阅读，而不是报告为空白。 (具体来说，格式化的lang属性现在可以优雅地处理。)(#5569)
- 在Microsoft Word中，如果未显示跟踪更改标记，则不再报告跟踪的更改(例如“插入”)。 (#5566)
- 当切换按钮聚焦时，NVDA现在报告它从按下变为未按下时。 (#5441)
- 报告鼠标形状更改再次按预期工作。 (#5595)
- 当说明行缩进时，非破坏性空格现在被视为正常空格。以前，这可能导致诸如“空间空间”而不是“3空间”的公告。 (#5610)
- 关闭现代Microsoft输入法候选列表时，焦点会正确恢复到输入组合或基础文档。 (#4145)
- 在Microsoft Office 2013和更高版本中，当功能区设置为仅显示选项卡时，功能区中的项目会在激活选项卡时再次按预期方式报告。 (#5504)
- 修正和改进触摸屏手势检测和绑定。 (#5652)
- 触摸屏悬停在输入帮助中不再报告。 (#5652)
- 如果注释位于合并的单元格上，NVDA不再无法列出Microsoft Excel的元素列表中的注释。 (#5704)
- 在极少数情况下，NVDA不再无法在Microsoft Excel中读取工作表内容，并且启用了行标题和列标题报告。 (#5705)
- 在Google Chrome中，输入东亚字符时在输入素材中进行导航现在可以正常工作。 (#4080)
- 在iTunes中搜索Apple Music时，搜索结果文档的浏览模式现在按预期更新。 (#5659)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，按shift + f11创建新工作表现在报告您的新位置，而不是什么都不报告。 (#5689)
- 修正输入韩语字符时盲文显示输出的问题。 (#5640)


==开发者更改==
- 新的audioDucking.AudioDucker类允许输出音频的代码，以指示何时应该禁止背景音频。 (#3830)
- nvwave.WavePlayer的构造函数现在有一个wantDucking关键字参数，它指定在音频播放时是否应该禁止背景音频。 (#3830)
 - 当启用(这是默认值)时，必要的是，在适当时调用WavePlayer.idle。
- 增强型盲文显示器的I / O：(#5609)
 - 线程安全的盲文显示驱动程序可以使用BrailleDisplayDriver.isThreadSafe属性来声明自身。驱动程序必须是线程安全的，才能受益于以下功能。
 - 数据在后台写入线程安全盲文显示驱动程序，从而提高性能。
 - hwIo.Serial扩展pyserial调用callable当数据被接收，而不是驱动程序必须轮询。
 - hwIo.Hid提供对通过USB HID通信的盲文显示器的支持。
 - hwPortUtils和hwIo可以选择提供详细的调试日志记录，包括找到的设备和发送和接收的所有数据。
- 有几个新的属性可以从触摸屏手势访问：(#5652)
 - MultitouchTracker对象现在包含一个childTrackers属性，其中包含由该跟踪器组成的MultiTouchTrackers。例如，2指双击具有用于两个2指按钮的子跟踪器。 2指水龙头本身有两个水龙头的儿童跟踪器。
 - MultiTouchTracker对象现在也包含一个rawSingleTouchTracker属性，如果跟踪器是一个单一的手指轻击，轻拂或悬停的结果。 SingleTouchTracker允许访问操作系统分配给手指的底层ID，以及手指是否在当前时间仍然保持联系。
 - TouchInputGestures现在有x和y属性，删除需要访问跟踪器的一些小的例子。
 - TouchInputGesturs现在包含一个preheldTracker属性，它是一个MultitouchTracker对象，表示在执行此操作时保持的其他手指。
- 可以发出两个新的触摸屏手势：(#5652)
 - 多个点按和保持(例如双击并按住)
 - 已移除手指计数的笼统标识符(例如，针对1finger_hold +悬停的保持+悬停)。


= 2015.4 =
此版本的亮点包括Windows 10中的性能改进;NVDA包含在Windows 8及更高版本的轻松访问中心中; Microsoft Excel的增强功能，包括列表和重命名工作表以及访问受保护工作表中的锁定单元格;并支持在Mozilla Firefox，Google Chrome和Mozilla Thunderbird中编辑富文本。

== 新特性 ==
- NVDA 如今会出现在 Windows8 或更高版本的系统的轻松访问中心。 (#308)
- 在Excel中移动单元格时，如果在NVDA的“文档格式设置”对话框中打开了适当的选项，现在会自动报告格式更改。 (#4878)
- 报告强调选项已添加到NVDA的文档格式设置对话框中。默认情况下，此选项允许NVDA自动报告文档中强调文本的存在。到目前为止，只有浏览模式下的Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件才支持em和strong标记。 (#4920)
- 如果启用了NVDA的“报告编辑器修订”选项，现在会在浏览模式中为Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件报告插入和删除的文本。 (#4920)
- 当在NVDA的Microsoft Word元素列表中查看跟踪更改时，现在显示更多信息，例如格式属性是否已更改。 (#4920)
- Microsoft Excel：现在可以从NVDA的元素列表（NVDA + f7）列表和重命名工作表。 (#4630, #4414)
- 现在可以配置是否将符号发音对话框中的实际符号发送到语音合成器（例如，导致暂停或变形变形）。 (#5234)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，NVDA现在报告单元格上的表单作者设置的任何输入消息。 (#5051)
- 支持Baum Pronto！当通过蓝牙连接时，V4和VarioUltra盲文显示器。 (#3717)
- 支持在Mozilla应用程序中编辑富文本，例如在Mozilla Firefox中启用盲文支持的Google Docs以及在Mozilla Thunderbird中编写HTML。 (#1668)
- 支持在基于Chrome的浏览器（如启用盲文支持的Google文档）中编辑富文本。 (#2634)
- 这需要Chrome 47或更高版本。
- 在Microsoft Excel的浏览模式下，您可以导航到受保护工作表中的锁定单元格。 (#4952)


== 更改 ==
- NVDA的文档格式设置对话框中的报告编辑器修订选项现在默认打开。 (#4920)
- 在启用了NVDA的“报告编辑器修订”选项的Microsoft Word中按字符移动时，现在会报告更少的信息用于跟踪更改，这将使导航更有效。要查看额外的信息，请使用元素列表。 (#4920)
- 更新了liblouis盲文翻译器到2.6.4。 (#5341)
- 几个符号（包括基本的数学符号）已经移动到一些水平，以便默认报告它们。 (#3799)
- 如果合成器支持它，语音现在应暂停朗读括号和短划线（ - ）。 (#3799)
- 选择文本时，文本在选择指示之前而不是之后被报告。 (#1707)


== 错误修复 ==
- Outlook 2010/2013 消息列表浏览速度的重大提升。 (#5268)
- 在 Microsoft Excel 的单元格中，某些浏览键(例如切换表格 control+上翻页 和 control+下翻页) 现在可以正常工作了。 (#5336)
- 修复 NVDA 退出对话框按钮显示错误。 (#5325)
- 在 Windows8 或以上的系统， NVDA在登陆后的启动时间变的更加短。 (#308)
 - 如果您启用了该特性，在使用先前版本的 NVDA 时必须先在“常规设置”对话框中停用再启用才能使之生效。
- UI自动化的性能增强，包括文件资源管理器和任务查看器。 (#5293)
- 当Mozilla Firefox浏览模式和其他基于Gecko的控件在选择只读ARIA网格控件时，NVDA现在可以正确切换到焦点模式。 (#5118)
 - 当在触摸屏上向左轻扫没有更多的对象时，NVDA现在可以正确报告“没有先前”而不是“没有下一个”。
- 修复了在输入手势对话框中的多个词语输入过滤器字段时出现的问题。 (#5426)
- 在某些情况下，当通过USB重新连接到HumanWare Brailliant BI / B系列盲文显示器时，NVDA不再冻结。 (#5406)
- 在带有连字符的语言中，字符描述现在可以按照大写英文字符的预期工作。 (#5375)
- 在Windows 10中启动“开始”菜单时，NVDA不应再偶尔冻结。 (#5417)
- 在Skype for Desktop中，现在报告在先前通知消失之前显示的通知。 (#4841)
- Skype for Desktop 7.12及更高版本现在可以正确报告通知。 (#5405)
- NVDA现在可以在某些应用程序（如Jart）中关闭上下文菜单时正确报告焦点。 (#5302)
- 在Windows 7和更高版本中，Color在某些应用程序（如写字板）中再次被报告。 (#5352)
- 在Microsoft PowerPoint中进行编辑时，按Enter键即可自动输入文本，如项目符号或编号。 (#5360)


= 2015.3 =
此次更新的亮点包括对 Windows10的初步支持，允许停用浏览模式的单键导航(对于某些  web 程序很有用)，增强对 Internet Explorer 的支持，在点字输出打开的前提下输出乱码的解决。

== 新特性 ==
- 在 internet explorer 或其他 MSHTML 控件的可编辑输入框的拼写错误朗读支持 (#4174)
- • 现在可以读出文本中更多的 unicode 数学符号。 (#3805)
- • 自动读出 Windows 10 开始屏幕中的搜索建议。 (#5049)
- 对 EcoBraille 20、 EcoBraille 40、 EcoBraille 80 和 EcoBraille + 盲文显示器的支持。 (#4078)
- • 在浏览模式中，你现在可以按 NVDA + shift + 空格键打开和关闭单键导航。关闭时，单个字母键会直接传递给应用程序，这对于 Gmail、 Twitter 和 Facebook 等一些 web 应用程序很有用。 (#3203)
- 新的盲文翻译表: 芬兰 6 点点字、 爱尔兰1级点字、 爱尔兰2级点字、 韩语1 级点字(2006)，韩语2级点字 (2006)。 (#5137， #5074， #5097) (2006). (#5137, #5074, #5097)
- 支持Papenmeier BRAILLEX Live Plus 点显器的QWERTY全键盘。 (#5181)
- 对 Windows 10 edge浏览器及edge浏览引擎的实验性支持。 (#5212)


== 更改 ==
- 升级 liblouis braille translator 为 2.6.3。 (#5137)
- 当你试图安装比当前安装的 NVDA 更早的版本，你现在会收到警告，不建议这样做，应该完全卸载之前安装的 NVDA 。 (#5037)


== 错误 修复 ==
- 在 Internet Explorer 和其他 MSHTML 控件 的浏览模式中，使用表单导航时不再错误的识别仅用作装饰的列表项目。 (#4204)
- 在 Firefox， NVDA 不会在焦点移动到 ARIA tab 面板的时错误的读出内容。 (#4638)
- 在 Internet Explorer 和其他 MSHTML controls中，切换到区域、控件或对话框不会再错误的读出整个对话框的内容。 (#5021, #5025)
- 修复-Baum/HumanWare/APH 所有按键松开之后还输出a0的问题 (#3541)
- 移除使用 alt+tab键进行窗口切换时读出的冗余信息。 (#5116)
- 修复-在outlook启用盲文输出后键入会有乱码的bug (#2953)
- Internet Explorer 或 其他MSHTML 控件，新增或修改了元素后焦点会被及时刷新，相应内容也会被读出 (#5040)
- 修复-word下进行单键导航时点显器不刷新 (#4968)
- 控件或格式指示器之间或前后的多余空格不再用盲文显示。 (#5043)
- 提高 NVDA 在低响应程序的反应速度。 (#3831)
- Windows 10 Toast notifications 可以正常朗读 (#5136)
- 某些 UIA 组合框值发生改变之后无朗读的修复。
- 在 web 浏览器的浏览模式中， 切换到 frame文档后的tab键动作可以如预期的工作 (#5227)
- windows10 锁定屏幕可以使用触摸屏跳出。 (#5220)
- 修复 windows7 或其后版本系统中某些文本编辑软件下盲文输出乱码。 (#4291)
- 无法在 windows 10 的锁屏界面读取剪贴板、使用浏览光标访问程序或更改 NVDA 配置。 (#5269)


== 开发者更改 ==
- You can now inject raw input from a system keyboard that is not handled natively by Windows (e.g. a QWERTY keyboard on a braille display) using the new keyboardHandler.injectRawKeyboardInput function. (#4576)
- eventHandler.requestEvents has been added to request particular events that are blocked by default; e.g. show events from a specific control or certain events even when in the background. (#3831)
- Rather than a single i18nName attribute, synthDriverHandler.SynthSetting now has separate displayNameWithAccelerator and displayName attributes to avoid reporting of the accelerator in the synth settings ring in some languages.
 - For backwards compatibility, in the constructor, displayName is optional and will be derived from displayNameWithAccelerator if not provided. However, if you intend to have an accelerator for a setting, both should be provided.
 - The i18nName attribute is deprecated and may be removed in a future release.


= 2015.2 =
此版本的更新包括能够在Microsoft Excel中阅读图表，并支持数学内容的阅读和交互式导航。

== 新特性 ==
- 在Microsoft Word和Outlook中逐句前后移动现在可以分别使用alt + downArrow和alt + upArrow。 (#3288)
- 更新多种印度语言的盲文翻译表。 (#4778)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，NVDA现在报告单元格溢出或剪切内容的时间。 (#3040)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，您现在可以使用元素列表（NVDA + f7）浏览列出图表，评论和公式。 (#1987)
- 支持在Microsoft Excel中阅读图表。要使用此功能，请使用元素列表（NVDA + f7）选择图表，然后使用箭头键在数据点之间移动。 (#1987)
- 使用Design Science中的MathPlayer 4，NVDA现在可以在Web浏览器和Microsoft Word和PowerPoint中阅读和交互式浏览数学内容。有关详细信息，请参阅用户指南中的“阅读数学内容”部分。 (#4673)
- 现在可以使用“输入手势”对话框为所有NVDA首选项对话框和文档格式选项分配输入手势（键盘命令，触摸手势等）。 (#4898)


== 更改 ==
- 在NVDA的文档格式对话框中，报告列表，报告链接，报告行号和报告字体名称的键盘快捷键已更改。 (#4650)
- 在NVDA的“鼠标设置”对话框中，当鼠标移动并且亮度控制音频坐标音量时，键盘快捷键已添加用于播放音频坐标。 (#4916)
- 颜色名称的报告显着改进。 (#4984)
- 更新liblouis盲文翻译器到2.6.2。 (#4777)


== Bug 修复 ==
- 字符描述现在可以在某些印度语言中正确处理合并字符。 (#4582)
- 如果启用了“处理字符和符号时信任语音的语言”选项，则标点符号发音对话框现在可以正确使用语音语言。此外，正在编辑发音的语言会显示在对话框的标题中。 (#4930)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，键入的字符不再在可编辑组合框（如Google主页上的Google搜索字段）中不适当地发布。 (#4976)
- 在Microsoft Office应用程序中选择颜色时，现在会报告颜色名称。 (#3045)
- 丹麦盲文输出现在再次运作。 (#4986)
- PageUp / pageDown可以再次用于更改PowerPoint幻灯片放映中的幻灯片。 (#4850)
- 在Skype for Desktop 7.2及更高版本中，现在报告输入通知，并且在将焦点移出对话之后立即解决了问题。 (#4972)
- 修正了在输入手势对话框的过滤器字段中输入某些标点/符号（如方括号）时出现的问题。 (#5060)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，按g或shift + g导航到图形现在包括标记为用于辅助功能目的的图像（即ARIA角色img）的元素。 (#5062)


== 开发者更改 ==
- brailleInput.handler.sendChars(mychar) will no longer filter out a character if it is equal to the previous character by ensuring that the key sent is correctly released. (#4139)
- Scripts for changing touch modes will now honor new labeles added to touchHandler.touchModeLabels. (#4699)
- Add-ons can provide their own math presentation implementations. See the mathPres package for details. (#4509)
- Speech commands have been implemented to insert a break between words and to change the pitch, volume and rate. See BreakCommand, PitchCommand, VolumeCommand and RateCommand in the speech module. (#4674)
 - There is also speech.PhonemeCommand to insert specific pronunciation, but the current implementations only support a very limited number of phonemes.


= 2015.1 =
此版本的更新包括Microsoft Word和Outlook中文档的浏览模式;支持Skype for Desktop的主要增强功能;和Microsoft Internet Explorer的重大修补程序。

== 新特性 ==
- 您现在可以在符号发音对话框中添加新的符号。 (#4354)
- 在输入手势对话框中，您可以使用新的“过滤方式”字段仅显示包含特定单词的手势。 (#4458)
- NVDA现在自动报告新的文字。 (#4588)
- 在浏览模式查找对话框中，现在可以选择执行区分大小写的搜索。 (#4584)
- 通过使用NVDA +空格开启浏览模式，快速导航（按h按标题等进行移动）和元素列表（NVDA + f7）现在可用于Microsoft Word文档。 (#2975)
- 在Microsoft Outlook 2007及更高版本中读取HTML邮件已经大幅改进，因为这些邮件自动启用浏览模式。如果在极少数情况下浏览模式未启用，您可以使用NVDA +空格强制启用浏览模式。 (#2975)
- Microsoft Word中的表格列标题会自动报告表格，其中标题行已由作者通过Microsoft Word表格属性明确指定。 (#4510)
 - 但是，对于已合并行的表，这不会自动工作。在这种情况下，您仍然可以使用NVDA + shift + c在NVDA中手动设置列标题。
- 在Skype for Desktop中，现在会报告通知。 (#4741)
- 在Skype for Desktop中，您现在可以使用NVDA +ctrl+ 1到NVDA +ctrl+ 0报告和查看最近的消息;例如NVDA +ctrl+ 1为最近的消息，NVDA +ctrl+ 0为最近的第十个消息。 (#3210)
- 在Skype for Desktop的聊天界面中，NVDA现在可以报告联系人正在输入的内容。 (#3506)
- 现在可以通过命令行静默安装NVDA，而无需在安装后启动安装的副本。为此，请使用--install-silent选项。 (#4206)
- 支持Papenmeier BRAILLEX Live 20，BRAILLEX Live和BRAILLEX Live Plus盲文显示器。 (#4614)


== 更改 ==
- 在NVDA的文档格式设置对话框中，现在报告拼写错误的选项有一个快捷键（alt + r）。 (#793)
- 无论是否启用自动语言切换，NVDA现在都会使用合成器/语音的语言来处理字符和符号（包括标点/符号名称）。要关闭此功能以便NVDA再次使用其界面语言，请在处理字符和符号时取消选中名为Trust Voice的语言的语音设置中的新选项。 (#4210)
- 对Newfon合成器的支持已被删除。 Newfon现在可作为NVDA插件。 (#3184)
- Skype for Desktop 7或更高版本现在需要与NVDA一起使用;早期版本不受支持。 (#4218)
- 下载NVDA更新现在更安全。 (具体来说，通过https检索更新信息，并在下载后验证文件的散列。) (#4716)
- 升级eSpeak到1.48.04 (#4325)


== Bug 修复 ==
- 在Microsoft Excel中，现在可以正确处理合并的行和列标题单元格。例如，如果合并了A1和B1，则B2现在将A1和B1报告为其列标题，而不是报告没有。 (#4617)
- 在Microsoft PowerPoint 2003中编辑文本框的内容时，NVDA会正确报告每一行的内容。 (#4619)
- 所有NVDA的对话框现在集中在屏幕上，提高了视觉表现力和可用性。 (#3148)
- 在用于桌面的Skype中，当输入介绍性消息以添加联系人时，输入和移动文本现在可以正常工作。 (#3661)
- 当焦点移动到Eclipse IDE中的树视图中的新项目时，如果先前关注的项目是复选框，则不会再错误地报告它。 (#4586)
- 在Microsoft Word拼写检查对话框中，当使用相应的快捷键更改或忽略最后一个错误时，将自动报告下一个错误。 (#1938)
- 在Tera Term Pro的终端窗口和Balabolka的文档等地方可以正确地读取文本。 (#4229)
- 焦点现在可以正确返回到正在编辑的文档当在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML文档中的框架内编辑时在朝鲜语和其他东亚语言中完成文本的输入组合。 (#4045)
- 在“输入手势”对话框中，为正在添加的键盘手势选择键盘布局时，按下“换码”按钮会按预期方式关闭菜单，而不是关闭对话框。 (#3617)
- 删除插件时，现在可以在重新启动NVDA后正确删除插件目录。以前，你必须重新启动两次。 (#3461)
- 使用Skype for Desktop 7时，主要问题已得到解决。 (#4218)
- 当您在Skype for Desktop中发送消息时，不再读取两次。 (#3616)
- 在Skype for Desktop中，NVDA不应该偶尔虚假地阅读大量消息（甚至可能是整个对话）。 (#4644)
- 修复了NVDA的报告日期/时间命令在某些情况下不符合用户指定的区域设置的问题。 (#2987)
- 在浏览模式下，某些图形（如Google网上论坛）上不再显示无意义的文字（有时跨越多行）。 （具体来说，这发生在base64编码图像上。） (#4793)
- 将焦点从Windows应用商店应用移开时，NVDA应在几秒钟后不再冻结，因为它会暂停。 (#4572)
- 即使原子元素本身发生变化，Mozilla Firefox中的实时区域的aria-atomic属性现在也可以使用。以前，它只影响后代元素。 (#4794)
- 浏览模式将反映更新，并将公布活动区域，以便在Internet Explorer或其他MSHTML控件中嵌入文档中的ARIA应用程序中浏览模式文档。 (#4798)
- 当文本在Internet Explorer中的实时区域中以及作者指定文本相关的其他MSHTML控件中的实时区域中进行更改或添加时，只会发布更改或添加的文本，而不是包含元素中的所有文本。 (#4800)
- 由Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中的元素上的aria-labelledby属性指示的内容可以正确替换适当的原始内容。 (#4575)
- 在Microsoft Outlook 2013中检查拼写时，现在宣布拼写错误的单词。 (#4848)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，隐藏着可见性：隐藏的元素内的内容不再以浏览模式不适当地呈现。 (#4839, #3776)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，表单控件上的title属性不再不当地优先于其他标签关​​联。 (#4491)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，由于aria-activedescendant属性，NVDA不再忽略元素的聚焦。 (#4667)


== 开发者更改 ==
- Updated wxPython to 3.0.2.0. (#3763)
- Updated Python to 2.7.9. (#4715)
- NVDA no longer crashes when restarting after removing or updating an add-on which imports speechDictHandler in its installTasks module. (#4496)


= 2014.4 =

== 新特性 ==
- 新增语言: 哥伦比亚西班牙语， 旁遮普语。
- 现在可以重新启动NVDA，或者使用NVDA退出对话框的禁用插件功能重新启动NVDA。 (#4057)
 - 另外NVDA也可以通过使用--disable-addons命令来禁用插件和启动NVDA。
- 在语音词典中，现在可以指定一个模式只能匹配整个单词;即它不会作为较大单词的一部分出现。 (#1704)


== 更改 ==
- 如果通过对象导航移动到的对象位于浏览模式文档，但您之前所在的对象不是，则审阅模式会自动设置为文档。以前，只有在导航对象因焦点更改而移动时才会发生这种情况。 (#4369)
- 盲文显示和合成器列表现在在相应的设置对话框中按字母顺序排列，除了无盲文/无语音以外。 (#2724)
- 更新liblouis盲文翻译器到2.6.0。 (#4434, #3835)
- 在浏览模式下，按e并切换+ e导航到编辑字段现在包含可编辑的组合框。这包括Google搜索的最新版本中的搜索框。 (#4436)
- 用鼠标左键单击通知区域中的NVDA图标现在打开NVDA菜单，而不是无所事事。 (#4459)


== Bug 修复 ==
- 当将焦点移回浏览模式文档（例如，将alt + tabb移动到已打开的网页）时，检查光标被恰当地定位在虚拟插入符处而不是焦点控制（例如，附近的链接）。 (#4369)
- 在Powerpoint幻灯片演示中，审阅光标正确地跟随虚拟插入符号。 (#4370)
- 在Mozilla Firefox和其他基于Gecko的浏览器中，即使新内容具有与父活动区域不同的可用ARIA实时类型，也会宣布活动区域内的新内容;例如当标记为自信的内容被添加到标记为礼貌的活动区域时。 (#4169)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，文档包含在另一个文档中的某些情况不再阻止用户访问某些内容（特别是框架集内的框架集）。 (#4418)
- 在某些情况下尝试使用Handy Tech盲文显示器时，NVDA不再崩溃。 (#3709)
- 在Windows Vista中，在几种情况下，例如从桌面快捷方式或通过快捷键启动NVDA时，不再显示虚假的“未找到Entry Point”对话框。 (#4235)
- 最近版本的Eclipse中对话框中可编辑文本控件的严重问题已修复。 (#3872)
- 在Outlook 2010中，移动插入符号现在可以在约会和会议请求的位置字段中按预期工作。 (#4126)
- 在活动区域​​内，标记为不活动的内容（例如，aria-live =“off”）现在可以正确忽略。 (#4405)
- 报告具有名称的状态栏的文本时，该名称现在可以正确地与状态栏文本的第一个单词分开。 (#4430)
- 在启用输入单词的密码输入字段中，多个星号在开始新单词时不再无意义地报告。 (#4402)
- 在Microsoft Outlook消息列表中，项目不再被无意义地宣布为数据项目。 (#4439)
- 在Eclipse IDE中的代码编辑控件中选择文本时，每次选择更改时都不会再发布整个选择。 (#2314)
- Eclipse的各种版本（如Spring Tool Suite和Android Developer Tools包中包含的版本）现在都被识别为Eclipse并进行了适当的处理。 (#4360, #4454)
- 在高DPI显示或文档缩放更改时，Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件（包括许多Windows 8应用程序）中的鼠标跟踪和触摸浏览功能现在更精确。 (#3494) 
- Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中的鼠标跟踪和触摸浏览现在将宣布更多按钮的标签。 (#4173)
- 当使用BrxCom的Papenmeier BRAILLEX盲文显示器时，显示器上的按键现在可以按预期工作。 (#4614)


== 开发者更改 ==
- For executables which host many different apps (e.g. javaw.exe), code can now be provided to load specific app modules for each app instead of loading the same app module for all hosted apps. (#4360)
 - See the code documentation for appModuleHandler.AppModule for details.
 - Support for javaw.exe is implemented.


= 2014.3 =

== 新特性 ==
- 现在NVDA启动和退出时播放的声音可通过“常规设置”对话框中的新选项禁用。 (#834)
- 现在可以从附加插件管理器访问附加插件的帮助，以获取支持该组件的附加插件。 (#2694)
- 支持Microsoft Outlook 2007及更高版本中的日历（＃2943），其中包括：
 - 用光标键移动当前时间的通知。
 - 指示所选时间是否在任何约会范围内。
 - 按Tab键时所选约会的公告。
 - 智能过滤日期，以便仅在新的选定时间或约会与最后一天不同时才宣布日期。
- 增强了对Microsoft Outlook 2010及更高版本中收件箱和其他邮件列表的支持 (#3834) 包括：
 - 通过关闭“文档格式设置”中的“报表表格行”和“列标题”选项，可以消除列标题（来自主题等）。
 - 能够使用表格导航命令（control + alt +箭头）在单个列中移动。 
- Microsoft Word：如果一个内嵌图像没有替代文字集，NVDA将会在作者提供一个图像时报告图像的标题。 (#4193)
- Microsoft Word: NVDA现在可以使用报告格式化命令（NVDA + f）报告段落缩进。 当在文档格式设置中启用新的报告段落缩进选项时，它也可以自动报告。 (#4165)
- 在可编辑的文档和文本字段中按回车时，报告自动插入的文本，如新的项目符号，数字或制表符缩进。 (#4185)
- Microsoft word：如果光标在一个范围内，按NVDA + alt + c将报告注释的文本。 (#3528)
- 在Microsoft Excel（＃3568）中改进了对自动列和行标题读取的支持，其中包括：
 - 支持Excel定义的名称范围以标识标题单元格（与Jaws屏幕阅读器兼容） .
 - 设置的列标题（NVDA + shift + c）和设置的行标题（NVDA + shift + r）命令现在将设置存储在工作表中，以便下次打开表格时可用，并且可用于其他屏幕支持定义的名称范围方案的读者。
 - 这些命令现在也可以在每张纸上多次使用，为不同区域设置不同的标题。
- 支持Microsoft Word中的自动列和行标题读取 (#3110) 包括：
 - 支持Microsoft Word书签以识别标题单元（与Jaws屏幕阅读器兼容）。
 - 设置列标题（NVDA + shift + c）并设置行标题（NVDA + shift + r）命令，同时在表中的第一个标题单元格中允许您告诉NVDA这些标题应自动报告。设置存储在文档中，以便下次打开文档时可用，并且可供支持书签方案的其他屏幕阅读器使用。
- Microsoft Word：在按Tab键时报告页面左边缘的距离。 (#1353)
- Microsoft Word：为大多数可用格式化快捷键（粗体，斜体，下划线，对齐，大纲级别，上标，下标和字体大小）提供语音和盲文反馈。 (#1353)
- Microsoft Excel：如果所选单元格包含注释，则可以通过按NVDA + alt + c来报告它们。 (#2920)
- Microsoft Excel：按Excel的shift + f2命令进入注释编辑模式时，提供NVDA特定的对话框以编辑当前选定单元格上的注释。 (#2920)
- Microsoft Excel：用于更多选择移动快捷方式（＃4211）的语音和盲文反馈，其中包括：
 - 垂直页面移动（pageUp和pageDown）;
 - 扩展选择（上面的Shift键添加了Shift）;和
 - 选择当前区域（ctrl+ shift + 8）。
- Microsoft Excel：现在可以使用报告格式化命令（NVDA + f）报告单元格的垂直和水平对齐方式。如果启用了文档格式设置中的报告对齐选项，它也可以自动报告。 (#4212)
- Microsoft Excel：现在可以使用报告格式化命令（NVDA + f）报告单元格的样式。如果启用了文档格式设置中的报告样式选项，它也可以自动报告。 (#4213)
- Microsoft PowerPoint: when moving shapes around a slide with the arrow keys, the shape's current location is now reported (#4214) including:
 - 报告形状与每个滑块边缘之间的距离。
 - 如果形状覆盖或被其他形状覆盖，则距离重叠并报告重叠形状。
 - 要在不移动形状的情况下随时报告此信息，请按报告位置命令（NVDA +delete）。
 - 选择一个形状时，如果它被另一个形状覆盖，NVDA会报告它被遮挡。
- 报告位置命令（NVDA +delete）在某些情况下更具有上下文特定性。 (#4219)
 - 在标准编辑字段和浏览模式下，报告通过内容及其屏幕坐标的百分比光标位置。
 - 在PowerPoint演示文稿中的形状上，会报告形状相对于幻灯片和其他形状的位置。
 -按下此命令两次将产生以前报告整个控件位置信息的行为。 
 - 新增语言: 加泰罗尼亚语。


== 更改 ==
- 更新liblouis盲文翻译器到2.5.4。 (#4103)


== Bug 修复 ==
- 在Google Chrome浏览器和基于Chrome浏览器的浏览器中，报告警报或对话框的文本时，不再重复某些文本块（如重点说明）。 (#4066)
- 在Mozilla应用程序的浏览模式下，在某些情况下（例如Facebook顶部的按钮），按下按钮上的Enter等不再无法激活它（或激活错误的控件）。 (#4106)
- 在iTunes中停用时，不再公布无用的信息。 (#4128)
- 在iTunes中的某些列表（如音乐列表）中，使用对象导航移动到下一个项目现在可以正常工作。 (#4129)
- 由于WAI ARIA标记，考虑标题的HTML元素现在包含在浏览模式元素列表中，并且可以快速浏览Internet Explorer文档。 (#4140)
- 在最近版本的Internet Explorer中的相同页面链接现在正确移动到并在浏览模式文档中报告目标位置。 (#4134)
- Microsoft Outlook 2010及更高版本：对新配置文件和邮件设置对话框等安全对话框的整体访问权限得到了改进。 (#4090, #4091, #4095)
- Microsoft Outlook：浏览某些对话框时，命令工具栏中的无用冗长度已降低。 (#4096, #3407)
- Microsoft Word：在表格中选中一个空白单元格不再错误地宣布退出表格。 (#4151)
- Microsoft Word：表格末尾的第一个字符（包括一个新的空白行）不再被错误地认为是在表格内。 (#4152)
- Microsoft Word 2010拼写检查对话框：报告实际拼写错误的单词而不是不恰当地报告第一个粗体字。 (#3431)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件的浏览模式下，使用Tab键或使用单字母导航移动到表单字段时，会在许多情况下（不使用HTML标签元素的情况下）重新报告标签。 (#4170)
- Microsoft Word：现在报告评论的存在和位置更准确。 (#3528)
- MS Office产品（如Word，Excel和Outlook）中某些对话框的导航已得到改进，不再报告对用户无用的特定控件容器工具栏。 (#4198)
- 诸如剪贴板管理器或文件恢复之类的任务窗格在打开诸如Microsoft Word或Excel之类的应用程序时不再似乎得到了重点，这些应用程序有时会导致用户不得不切换到应用程序以使用文档或电子表格。 (#4199)
- 修复了如果用户的Windows语言设置为塞尔维亚语（拉丁语），NVDA不会再无法在最近的Windows操作系统上运行的问题。 (#4203)
- 在输入帮助模式下按下numlock现在可以正确地切换numlock，而不会导致键盘和操作系统与该键的状态不同步。 (#4226)
- 在Google Chrome浏览器中，切换标签时会再次报告文档的标题。在NVDA 2014.2中，这在某些情况下不会发生。 (#4222)
- 在Google Chrome和Chrome浏览器中，报告文档时不再报告文档的URL。 (#4223)
- 现在当运行时选择了所有没有语音合成器的选项（对自动化测试有用），请说现在所有选项都会完成，而不是在前几行之后停止。 (#4225)
- Microsoft Outlook的签名对话框：现在可以访问签名编辑字段，允许进行完整的光标跟踪和格式检测。 (#3833)
- Microsoft Word：读取表格单元格的最后一行时，不再读取整个表格单元格。 (#3421)
- Microsoft Word：当读取目录的第一行或最后一行时，整个目录不再被读取。 (#3421)
- 在说出打字单词和其他一些情况时，单词在印度语的元音符号和virama等标记处不再被错误地打破。 (#4254)
- GoldWave中的数字可编辑文本字段现在可以正确处理。 (#670)
- Microsoft Word：当使用control + downArrow / control + upArrow移动段落时，如果在列表或列表中移动，则不再需要按两次。 (#3290)


== 开发者更改 ==
- NVDA now has unified support for add-on documentation. See the Add-on Documentation section of the Developer Guide for details. (#2694)
- When providing gesture bindings on a ScriptableObject via __gestures, it is now possible to provide the None keyword as the script. This unbinds the gesture in any base classes. (#4240)
- It is now possible to change the shortcut key used to start NVDA for locales where the normal shortcut causes problems. (#2209)
 - This is done via gettext.
 - Note that the text for the Create desktop shortcut option in the Install NVDA dialog, as well as the shortcut key in the User Guide, must also be updated.


= 2014.2 =

== 新特性 ==
- 现在可以在使用显示信息的一些自定义编辑字段中公布文本选择。 (#770)
- 在可访问的Java应用程序中，现在宣布位置信息用于显示组信息的单选按钮和其他控件。 (#3754)
- 在可访问的Java应用程序中，现在已经为具有它们的控件宣布了键盘快捷键。 (#3881)
- 在浏览模式下，现在会报告地标上的标签。它们也包含在“元素列表”对话框中。 (#1195)
- 在浏览模式下，标记区域现在被视为地标。 (#3741)
- 在Internet Explorer文档和应用程序中，Live Regions（W3c ARIA标准的一部分）现在得到支持，因此网络作者可以标记特定内容随着其更改而自动发言。 (#1846)


== 更改 ==
- 在浏览模式文档中退出对话框或应用程序时，浏览模式文档的名称和类型不再被公布。 (#4069)


== Bug 修复 ==
- 标准的Windows系统菜单在Java应用程序中不再意外沉默。 (#3882)
- 从屏幕审阅复制文本时，换行符不再被忽略。 (#3900)
- 当焦点改变或者在启用简单评论的情况下使用对象导航时，某些应用程序不再报告无意义的空白对象。 (#3839)
- 由NVDA制作的消息框和其他对话框再次导致先前的语音在宣布对话之前被取消。
- 在浏览模式下，如果标签已被作者用于辅助功能（特别是使用aria-label或aria-labelledby）覆盖了标签，则链接和按钮等控件的标签现在可以正确呈现。 (#1354)
- 在Internet Explorer中的浏览模式下，标记为表示（ARIA角色=“演示文稿”）的元素中包含的文本不再被不当地忽略。 (#4031)
- 现在可以使用Unikey软件输入越南文字。为此，在NVDA的键盘设置对话框中取消选中来自其他应用程序的新处理键复选框。 (#4043)
- 在浏览模式下，广播和检查菜单项作为控件报告，而不是仅仅可点击的文本。 (#4092)
- 当广播或检查菜单项目聚焦时，NVDA不再从对焦模式错误地切换到浏览模式。 (#4092)
- 在Microsoft PowerPoint中，在启用输入文字的情况下，使用退格键删除的字符不再作为输入单词的一部分进行公布。 (#3231)
- 在Microsoft Office 2010选项对话框中，正确报告组合框的标签。 (#4056)
- 在Mozilla应用程序中的浏览模式下，使用快速导航命令移动到下一个或上一个按钮或表单域现在包含按预期的切换按钮。 (#4098)
- Mozilla应用程序中的警报内容不再报告两次。 (#3481)
- 在浏览模式下，当页面内容改变时（例如导航Facebook和Twitter网站），容器和地标不再被不恰当地重复，同时在其内导航。 (#2199)
- 当从停止响应的应用程序切换时，NVDA会在更多情况下恢复。 (#3825)
- 插入点（插入点）在执行sayAll命令时再次正确更新，同时在可编辑文本中直接绘制到屏幕上。 (#4125)


= 2014.1 =

== 新特性 ==
- 支持Microsoft PowerPoint 2013.请注意，受保护的视图不受支持。 (#3578)
- 在Microsoft word和Excel中，NVDA现在可以在使用“插入符号”对话框选择符号时读取所选符号。 (#3538)
- 现在可以选择文档中的内容是否应通过文档格式设置对话框中的新选项被识别为可点击。根据先前的行为，此选项默认为开启。 (#3556)
- 在运行Widcomm蓝牙软件的计算机上支持通过蓝牙连接的盲文显示器。 (#2418)
- 在PowerPoint中编辑文本时，现在会报告超链接。 (#3416)
- 在网络上的ARIA应用程序或对话框中，现在可以强制NVDA切换到带有NVDA +空格的浏览模式，从而允许对应用程序或对话框进行文档式导航。 (#2023)
- 在Outlook Express / Windows Mail / Windows Live Mail中，NVDA现在会报告消息是否有附件或标记。 (#1594)
- 在可访问的Java应用程序中导航表时，现在报告行和列坐标，包括列和行标题（如果存在）。 (#3756)


== 更改 ==
- 对于Papenmeier盲文显示器，移除平面审查/聚焦命令已被删除。用户可以使用“输入手势”对话框分配自己的快捷键。 (#3652)
- NVDA现在使用Microsoft VC运行时版本11，这意味着它不能再运行在比Windows XP Service Pack 2或Windows Server 2003 Service Pack 1更早的操作系统上。
- 标点符号级别现在有些人会说星号（*）和加号（+）字符。 (#3614)
- 将eSpeak升级到版本1.48.04，其中包括许多语言修复并修复了几次崩溃。 (#3842, #3739, #3860)


== Bug 修复 ==
- 在Microsoft Excel中移动或选择单元格时，如果Microsoft Excel移动选择缓慢，NVDA不应该再不恰当地通知旧单元格而不是新单元格。 (#3558)
- NVDA通过上下文菜单正确处理在Microsoft Excel中打开单元格的下拉列表。 (#3586)
- iTunes 11商店页面中的新页面内容现在可以在浏览模式下正确显示，方法是在商店中进行链接或最初打开商店时。 (#3625)
- 用于在iTunes 11商店中预览歌曲的按钮现在以浏览模式显示其标签。 (#3638)
- 在谷歌浏览器的浏览模式下，复选框和单选按钮的标签现在可以正确显示。 (#1562)
- 在Instantbird中，每次移动到联系人列表中的联系人时，NVDA都不会再报告无用的信息。 (#2667)
- 在Adobe Reader的浏览模式下，现在为按钮等呈现正确的文本，其中标签已被工具提示或其他方式覆盖。 (#3640)
- 在Adobe Reader的浏览模式下，不再呈现包含文本“mc-ref”的无关图形。 (#3645)
- NVDA不再将Microsoft Excel中的所有单元格作为其格式信息中的下划线。 (#3669)
- 浏览模式文档中不再显示无意义的字符，例如在Unicode专用范围中找到的字符。在某些情况下，这些会阻止显示更有用的标签。 (#2963)
- 在PuTTY中输入东亚字符的输入组合不再失败。 (#3432)
- 在取消之后在文档中导航会说明全部不再导致NVDA有时会错误地宣布您在文档中留下了一个字段（如表格），而该字段实际上从未实际发言过。 (#3688)
- 在使用浏览模式快速导航命令的同时，在启用脱脂阅读的同时，NVDA更准确地宣布新的字段;例如它现在说一个标题是一个标题，而不仅仅是文本。 (#3689)
- 现在，在所有设置过程中，跳到结束或启动容器快速导航命令时都会遵循脱脂读取;即他们将不再取消当前的说法。 (#3675)
- 在NVDA的“输入手势”对话框中列出的触摸手势名称现在变得友好和本地化。 (#3624)
- 将鼠标移动到丰富的编辑（TRichEdit）控件上时，NVDA不再导致某些程序崩溃。程序包括Jarte 5.1和BRfácil。 (#3693, #3603, #3581)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，标记为由ARIA呈现的表格等容器不再报告给用户。 (#3713)
- 在Microsoft Word中，NVDA不再不适当地重复盲文显示器上多个单元格的表格行和列信息。 (#3702)
- 在使用空格作为数字组/千位分隔符的语言（如法语和德语）中，来自单独的文本块的数字不再作为单个数字发音。这对于包含数字的表格单元尤其有问题。 (#3698)
- 系统脱字符在Microsoft Word 2013中移动时，盲文不再有时无法更新。 (#3784)
- 当位于Microsoft Word中标题的第一个字符上时，与其通信的文本是标题（包括关卡）不再从盲文显示中消失。 (#3701)
- 当为应用程序触发配置文件并退出该应用程序时，NVDA不再有时无法停用配置文件。 (#3732)
- 当在NVDA本身内输入亚洲人输入到控件（例如浏览模式查找对话框）时，“NVDA”不再被错误地报告而代替候选人。 (#3726)
- 现在报告Outlook 2013选项对话框中的选项卡。 (#3826)
- 在Firefox和其他Mozilla Gecko应用程序中改进对ARIA实时区域的支持：
 - 支持aria原子更新和筛选aria繁忙更新。 (#2640)
 - 如果没有其他有用的文本，则包括替代文本（如alt属性或aria标签）。 (#3329)
 - 如果在焦点移动的同时发生活动区域更新，则不再保持沉默。 (#3777)
- Firefox和其他Mozilla Gecko应用程序中的某些表示元素不再以浏览模式不适当地显示（具体来说，当元素用aria-presentation标记但它也是可聚焦的时）。 (#3781)
- 在Microsoft Word中启用拼写错误时导航文档时的性能改进。 (#3785)
- 支持可访问的Java应用程序的几个修复程序：
 - 当框架或对话框到达前景时，框架或对话框中的最初聚焦控制不再失败。 (#3753)
 - 无用的位置信息不再用于单选按钮（例如1中的1）。 (#3754)
 - 更好地报告JComboBox控件（不再报告html，更好地报告扩展状态和折叠状态）。 (#3755)
 - 在报告对话文本时，现在包含了以前缺少的一些文本。 (#3757)
 - 现在更准确地报告对焦点控件的名称，值或描述的更改。 (#3770)
- 当关注某些包含大量文本的RichEdit控件（例如NVDA的日志查看器，windbg）时，修复Windows 8中出现的NVDA崩溃。 (#3867)
- 在DPI显示设置较高的系统上（对于许多现代屏幕默认情况下），NVDA不再在某些应用程序中将鼠标移动到错误的位置。 (#3758, #3703)
- 修复了浏览网络时偶尔遇到的问题，即NVDA在重新启动之前会停止正常工作，即使它没有崩溃或冻结。 (#3804)
- 即使Papenmeier显示器从未通过USB连接过，现在也可以使用Papenmeier盲文显示器。 (#3712)
- 选择Papenmeier BRAILLEX旧款盲文显示器时未连接显示器时，NVDA不再冻结。


== 开发者更改 ==
- AppModules now contain productName and productVersion properties. This info is also now included in Developer Info (NVDA+f1). (#1625)
- In the Python Console, you can now press the tab key to complete the current identifier. (#433)
 - If there are multiple possibilities, you can press tab a second time to choose from a list.


= 2013.3 =

== 新特性 ==
- 表单字段现在在Microsoft Word文档中报告。 (#2295)
- 当启用“修订”时，NVDA现在可以在Microsoft Word中公布修订信息。请注意，必须启用NVDA文档设置对话框中的报告编辑器修订（默认为关闭），以便它们可以公布。 (#1670)
- Microsoft Excel 2003到2010中的下拉列表现在会在打开并导航时公布。 (#3382)
- 在键盘设置对话框中新增的“允许脱脂阅读全选”选项允许通过浏览模式快速导航和线条/段落移动命令浏览文档，同时保留全部内容。该选项默认为关闭。 (#2766) 
- 现在有一个输入手势对话框，允许对NVDA命令的输入手势（例如键盘上的按键）进行更简单的自定义。 (#1532)
- 您现在可以使用配置文件为不同情况设置不同的设置。可以手动或自动激活配置文件（例如，针对特定应用程序）。 (#87, #667, #1913)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，链接的单元格现在将作为链接进行公布。 (#3042)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，现在向用户报告单元格上注释的存在。 (#2921)


== Bug 修复 ==
- Zend Studio现在的功能与Eclipse相同。 (#3420)
- 现在会自动报告Microsoft Outlook 2010消息规则对话框中某些复选框的更改状态。 (#3063)
- NVDA现在将报告固定控件的固定状态，例如Mozilla Firefox中的选项卡。 (#3372)
- 现在可以将脚本绑定到包含Alt键和/或Windows键的键盘手势作为修饰符。以前，如果这样做，执行该脚本将导致启动菜单或菜单栏被激活。 (#3472)
- 在浏览模式文档中选择文本（例如，使用control + shift + end）不再导致在安装了多个键盘布局的系统上切换键盘布局。 (#3472)
- 关闭NVDA时，Internet Explorer不应再崩溃或无法使用。 (#3397)
- 一些新电脑上的物理移动和其他事件不再被视为不适当的按键。以前，这个沉默的讲话，有时会触发NVDA命令。 (#3468)
- NVDA现在在Poedit 1.5.7中表现得如预期。使用较早版本的用户需要更新poedit到1.5.7。 (#3485)
- NVDA现在可以读取Microsoft Word 2010中的受保护文档，不再导致Microsoft Word崩溃。 (#1686)
- 如果在启动NVDA分发软件包时提供未知命令行开关，则不会再导致无限循环的错误消息对话框。 (#3463)
- 如果替代文本包含引号或其他非标准字符，NVDA不会再失败报告Microsoft Word中图形和对象的替代文本。 (#3579)
- 浏览模式下某些水平列表的项目数目现在正确。以前它可能是实际金额的两倍。 (#2151)
- 在Microsoft Excel工作表中按控件+ a时，现在会报告更新的选择。 (#3043)
- NVDA现在可以正确读取Microsoft Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中的XHTML文档。 (#3542)
- 键盘设置对话框：如果没有选择键用作NVDA键，则在解除对话时向用户提供错误。必须选择至少一个快捷键才能正确使用NVDA。 (#2871)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，NVDA现在宣布合并的单元格与多个选定的单元格不同。 (#3567)
- 在文档中留下对话框或应用程序时，浏览模式光标不再定位错误。 (#3145)
- 修复了在某些系统上人性化Brailliant BI / B系列盲文显示器驱动程序未作为盲文设置对话框中的选项提供的问题，即使这样的显示器通过USB连接。
- 当导航器对象没有实际的屏幕位置时，NVDA不再无法切换到屏幕查看。在这种情况下，审阅光标现在放置在屏幕的顶部。 (#3454)
- 修复了在某些情况下将端口设置为USB时导致Freedom Scientific盲文显示器驱动程序失败的问题。 (#3509, #3662)
- 修复了在某些情况下未检测到Freedom Scientific盲文显示器上的按键的问题。 (#3401, #3662)


== 开发者更改 ==
- You can specify the category to be displayed to the user for scripts using the scriptCategory attribute on ScriptableObject classes and the category attribute on script methods. See the documentation for baseObject.ScriptableObject for more details. (#1532)
- config.save is deprecated and may be removed in a future release. Use config.conf.save instead. (#667)
- config.validateConfig is deprecated and may be removed in a future release. Add-ons which need this should provide their own implementation. (#667, #3632)


= 2013.2 =

== 新特性 ==
- 现在NVDA支持Chromium嵌入式框架，它是用于多个应用程序的Web浏览器控件。 (#3108)
- 新的eSpeak语音变体：Iven3。
- 在Skype中，新的聊天消息将在会话聚焦时自动报告。 (#2298)
- 支持Tween，包括在阅读推文时报告标签名称和较少冗长。
- 您现在可以通过在盲文设置对话框中将消息超时设置为0来禁用在盲文显示器上显示NVDA消息。 (#2482)
- 在插件管理器中，现在有一个Get Add-ons按钮来打开NVDA Add-ons网站，您可以在其中浏览和下载可用的插件。 (#3209)
- 在首次运行NVDA时总是出现的NVDA欢迎对话框中，您现在可以指定NVDA是否在登录到Windows后自动启动。 (#2234)
- 睡眠模式在使用Dolphin Cicero时自动启用。 (#2055)
- 现在支持Miranda IM / Miranda NG的Windows x64版本。 (#3296)
- 现在Windows 8.1“开始”屏幕中的搜索建议将自动进行报告。 (#3322)
- 支持在Microsoft Excel 2013中导航和编辑电子表格。 (#3360)
- 当通过蓝牙连接时，现在支持Freedom Scientific Focus 14 Blue和Focus 80 Blue盲文显示器，以及以前不支持的某些配置中的Focus 40 Blue。 (#3307)
- 自动完成建议现在在Outlook 2010中报告。 (#2816)
- 新的盲文翻译表：英文（U.K.）计算机盲文，韩文2级，俄语盲文，计算机代码。
- 新语言：波斯语。 (#1427)


== 更改 ==
- 在触摸屏上，在对象模式下执行单指向左或向右轻扫现在会移动前一个或下一个所有对象，而不仅仅是当前容器中的那些对象。使用双指向左或向右轻击来执行移动到当前容器中上一个或下一个对象的原始动作。
- 在浏览模式设置对话框中找到的报表布局表格复选框现在已重命名为包含布局表格，以反映如果取消选中该复选框，快速导航也不会找到它们。 (#3140)
- 平板评论已被对象，文档和屏幕评论模式取代。 (#2996)
 - 对象评论评论导航器对象中的文本，文档评论浏览浏览模式文档中的所有文本（如果有的话）和屏幕评论评论当前应用程序屏幕上的文本。
 - 先前移到/移出平面检查的命令现在在这些新的检查模式之间切换。
 - 导航器对象会自动跟踪审阅光标，使其在文档或屏幕审阅模式下保持审阅光标位置上最深的对象。
 - 切换到屏幕审阅模式后，NVDA将保持此模式，直到您明确切换回文档或对象审阅模式。
 - 在文档或对象查看模式下，NVDA可能会自动在这两种模式之间切换，具体取决于您是否在浏览模式文档中移动。
- 更新liblouis盲文翻译器到2.5.3。 (#3371)


== Bug 修复 ==
- 激活对象现在会在激活之前宣布该操作，而不是激活之后的操作（例如，展开而不是折叠时展开）。 (#2982)
- 在Skype的最新版本的各种输入字段中，如聊天和搜索字段，可以进行更精确的阅读和光标跟踪。 (#1601, #3036)
- 在Skype最近的对话列表中，现在为每个对话读取新事件的数量（如果相关）。 (#1446)
- 针对写入屏幕的从右到左文本的光标跟踪和读取顺序的改进;例如在Microsoft Excel中编辑阿拉伯文字。 (#1601) 
- 快速导航到按钮和表单字段现在将在Internet Explorer中找到标记为可访问按钮的链接。 (#2750)
- 在浏览模式下，树视图内的内容不再呈现，因为展平的表示形式没有用处。您可以按下树状视图中的回车以在焦点模式下与其交互。 (#3023)
- 在对焦模式下，按alt + downArrow或alt + upArrow可以展开组合框，而不会再错误地切换到浏览模式。 (#2340)
- 在Internet Explorer 10中，表格单元格不再激活焦点模式，除非它们已被Web作者明确地设置为可对焦。 (#3248)
- 如果系统时间早于最后一次检查更新，NVDA不会再启动失败。 (#3260)
- 如果在盲文显示器上显示进度条，则在进度条更改时更新盲文显示器。 (#3258)
- 在Mozilla应用程序的浏览模式下，表格标题不再呈现两次。此外，摘要在还有标题时呈现。 (#3196)
- 在Windows 8中更改输入语言时，NVDA现在说的是正确的语言，而不是以前的语言。
- NVDA现在宣布Windows 8中的IME转换模式更改。
- 当Google日语或Atok IME输入法正在使用时，NVDA不再在桌面上宣布垃圾。 (#3234)
- 在Windows 7及更高版本中，NVDA不再将语音识别或触摸输入作为键盘语言更改发布。
- 当启用朗读输入的字符时，NVDA不再在某些编辑器中按下控制+退格键时宣布特定的特殊字符（0x7f）。 (#3315)
- 当NVDA读取包含某些控制字符或XML的文本时，eSpeak不再会在音高，音量等方面发生不适当的变化。 (#3334) （回归 #437)
- 在Java应用程序中，对焦点控件的标签或值的更改现在会自动公布，并在随后查询控件时反映出来。 (#3119)
- 在Scintilla控件中，当启用自动换行功能时，线条现在可以正确报告。 (#885)
- 在Mozilla应用程序中，现在正确报告了只读列表项的名称;例如在twitter.com上以重点模式导航推文时。 (#3327)
- Microsoft Office 2013中的确认对话框现在会在其显示时自动读取其内容。 
- 在Microsoft Word中导航某些表时性能得到改进。 (#3326)
- NVDA的表格导航命令（control + alt +光标）在单元跨越多行的某些Microsoft Word表格中更好地发挥作用。
- 如果插件管理器已经打开，再次激活它（从工具菜单或通过打开插件文件）不再失败或使插件管理器无法关闭。 (#3351)
- 日语或中文Office 2010 IME正在使用时，NVDA不会在特定对话框中冻结。 (#3064)
- 多个空间不再被压缩到盲文显示器上的一个空间。 (#1366)
- 现在，Zend Eclipse PHP Developer Tools的功能与Eclipse相同。 (#3353)
- 在Internet Explorer中，按下回车键后，再次按Tab键与嵌入对象（如Flash内容）交互现在也不是必需的。 (#3364)
- 在Microsoft PowerPoint中编辑文本时，如果最后一行为空白，则最后一行不再报告为上面的行。 (#3403)
- 在Microsoft PowerPoint中，当您选择对象或选择编辑它们时，有时不再会对象说出两次对象。 (#3394)
- NVDA不再导致Adobe Reader崩溃或冻结包含表格外部行的格式不正确的PDF文档。 (#3399)
- 当在Microsoft PowerPoint的缩略图视图中删除幻灯片时，NVDA现在可以正确检测到具有焦点的下一张幻灯片。 (#3415)


== 开发者更改 ==
- windowUtils.findDescendantWindow has been added to search for a descendant window (HWND) matching the specified visibility, control ID and/or class name.
- The remote Python console no longer times out after 10 seconds while waiting for input. (#3126)
- Inclusion of the bisect module in binary builds is deprecated and may be removed in a future release. (#3368)
 - Add-ons which depend on bisect (including the urllib2 module) should be updated to include this module.


= 2013.1.1 =
此版本修复了NVDA在启动时如果配置为使用爱尔兰语而崩溃的问题，以及包括对翻译和其他一些错误修复的更新。

== Bug 修复 ==
- 现在在使用韩语或日语输入法的同时，在使用NVDA自己的用户界面时输入正确的字符，而这是默认方法。 (#2909)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，标记为包含无效项的字段现在可以正确处理。 (#3256)
- 如果配置为使用爱尔兰语，NVDA在启动时不会再崩溃。


= 2013.1 =
该版本的亮点包括更直观和一致的笔记本电脑键盘布局;基本支持Microsoft PowerPoint;支持网页浏览器中的长时间描述;并支持盲文键盘的盲文显示器的计算机盲文输入。

== 重要 ==

=== 新的笔记本键盘布局 ===
笔记本电脑键盘布局已经完全重新设计，以使其更加直观和一致。
新布局使用光标键与NVDA键和其他修饰符组合来查看命令。

请注意以下对常用快捷键的更改：
|| 名称 | 快捷键 |
|朗读全部| NVDA + a |
|阅读当前行| NVDA + l |
|阅读当前文本选择| NVDA + shift + s |
|报告状态栏| NVDA + shift + end |
此外，除了其他更改外，所有对象导航，文本查看，鼠标点击和合成器设置铃声命令都已更改。
请参阅新的快捷键的[Commands Quick Reference keyCommands.html]文档。


== 新特性 ==
- 基本支持编辑和阅读Microsoft PowerPoint演示文稿。 (#501)
- 对Lotus Notes 8.5中的消息进行读写的基本支持。 (#543)
- 在Microsoft Word中读取文档时支持自动语言切换。 (#2047) 
- 在MSHTML（例如Internet Explorer）和Gecko（例如Firefox）浏览模式下，现在宣布长描述的存在。也可以通过按NVDA + d在新窗口中打开长描述。 (#809)
- 现在使用Internet Explorer 9及更高版本的通知（例如内容阻止或文件下载）。 (#2343)
- Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中的浏览模式文档现在支持自动报告表格行和列标题。 (#778)
- 新语言：阿拉贡语，爱尔兰语
- 新的盲文翻译表：丹麦语2级，韩国语1级。 (#2737)
- 支持在运行东芝蓝牙协议栈的计算机上通过蓝牙连接的盲文显示器。 (#2419)
- 现在使用Freedom Scientific显示器时支持端口选择可以使用（自动，USB或蓝牙）。
- 当担任屏幕阅读器的盲文终端时，支持来自HumanWare的BrailleNote系列记录器。 (#2012)
- 支持较老型号的Papenmeier BRAILLEX盲文显示器。 (#2679)
- 支持盲文键盘的盲文显示器的计算机盲文输入。 (#808)
- 新的键盘设置允许选择NVDA是否应打断键入字符和/或Enter键的语音。 (#698)
- 支持基于Google Chrome的几款浏览器：Rockmelt，BlackHawk，Comodo Dragon和SRWare Iron。 (#2236, #2813, #2814, #2815)


== 更改 ==
- 更新liblouis盲文翻译器到2.5.2。 (#2737)
- 笔记本电脑键盘布局已经完全重新设计，以使其更加直观和一致。 (#804)
- 更新eSpeak语音合成器到1.47.11。 (#2680, #3124, #3132, #3141, #3143, #3172)


== Bug 修复 ==
- 在浏览模式下跳转到下一个或上一个分隔符的快速导航键现在可以在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中使用。 (#2781)
- 如果由于NVDA启动时配置的语音合成器失败而导致NVDA回退到eSpeak或没有语音，则配置的选项不再自动设置到后备合成器。这意味着现在，下一次NVDA启动时，将再次尝试默认合成器。 (#2589)
- 如果由于NVDA启动时配置的盲文显示失败而导致NVDA无法恢复盲文，配置的显示不再自动设置为盲文。这意味着现在，原始显示将在下次NVDA启动时再次尝试。 (#2264)
- 在Mozilla应用程序的浏览模式下，表格的更新现在可以正确显示。例如，在更新的单元格中，报告了行和列坐标，并且表导航按其应有的方式工作。 (#2784)
- 在网页浏览器的浏览模式下，某些以前未渲染的可点击的未标记图形现在可以正确渲染。 (#2838)
- 现在支持SecureCRT的更早版本和更新版本。 (#2800)
- 对于输入法，例如XP下的Easy Dots IME，读取字符串现在可以正确报告。
- 使用左右箭头更改页面时以及首次使用Home打开时，现在可以正确阅读Windows 7下中文简体Microsoft拼音输入法中的候选列表。
- 当自定义符号发音信息被保存时，高级的“保留”字段不再被删除。 (#2852)
- 禁用自动检查更新时，NVDA不再需要重新启动才能使更改完全生效。
- 如果由于其目录当前正在被另一个应用程序使用而无法删除插件，则NVDA不会再启动失败。 (#2860)
- 现在可以在Flat Review中看到DropBox偏好设置对话框中的标签。
- 如果输入语言更改为默认值以外的内容，NVDA现在可以正确检测键盘的命令和输入帮助模式。
- 对于诸如德语的语言，其中+（加号）是键盘上的单个键，现在可以使用单词“plus”将命令绑定到它。 (#2898)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，现在会在适当的位置报告块引用。 (#2888)
- 当显示器通过蓝牙连接但从未通过USB连接时，现在可以选择HumanWare Brantly BI / B系列盲文显示器驱动程序。
- 在浏览模式元素列表中用大写的过滤文本过滤元素现在返回大小写不敏感的结果，就像小写而不是无。 (#2951)
- 在Mozilla浏览器中，浏览模式可以在Flash内容聚焦时再次使用。 (#2546)
- 当使用缩写盲文表并将计算机盲文扩展为光标处的单词时，盲文光标现在可以正确定位，当它位于一个单词之后，其中一个字符由多个盲文单元格表示（例如大写字母，字母符号，数字标志等）。 (#2947)
- 在Microsoft Word 2003和Internet Explorer编辑控件等应用程序的盲文显示中，文本选择现在可正确显示。
- 在盲文处于启用状态时，可以在Microsoft Word中向后选择文本。
- 查看，退格或删除字符时在Scintilla编辑控件中，NVDA可以正确地发布多字节字符。 (#2855)
- 当用户的配置文件路径包含某些多字节字符时，NVDA将不再安装失败。 (#2729)
- 在64位应用程序中报告List View控件（SysListview32）的组不会再导致错误。
- 在Mozilla应用程序的浏览模式下，文本内容不再被错误地视为在极少数情况下可编辑。 (#2959)
- 在IBM Lotus Symphony和OpenOffice中，移动插入符现在会在适当的情况下移动审阅光标。
- Adobe Flash内容现在可以在Windows 8的Internet Explorer中访问。 (#2454)
- 修复了Papenmeier Braillex Trio的蓝牙支持。 (#2995)
- 修复了无法使用某些Microsoft Speech API V5声音（如Koba Speech 2声音）的问题。 (#2629)
- 在使用Java Access Bridge的应用程序中，当插入符号在可编辑的文本字段中移动时，盲文显示器现在可以正确更新。 (#3107)
- 在支持地标的浏览模式文档中支持表单标志。 (#2997) 
- eSpeak合成器驱动程序现在可以更恰当地处理字符读取（例如，宣布外部字母的名称或值而不是其声音或通用名称）。 (#3106)
- 当用户的配置文件路径包含非ASCII字符时，NVDA不会再无法复制用户设置以便在登录和其他安全屏幕上使用。 (#3092)
- 在某些.NET应用程序中使用亚洲字符输入时，NVDA不再冻结。 (#3005)
- 在标准模式下，现在可以在Internet Explorer 10中使用浏览模式;例如www.gmail.com登录页面。 (#3151)


== 开发者更改 ==
- Braille display drivers can now support manual port selection. (#426)
 - This is most useful for braille displays which support connection via a legacy serial port.
 - This is done using the getPossiblePorts class method on the BrailleDisplayDriver class.
- Braille input from braille keyboards is now supported. (#808)
 - Braille input is encompassed by the brailleInput.BrailleInputGesture class or a subclass thereof.
 - Subclasses of braille.BrailleDisplayGesture (as implemented in braille display drivers) can also inherit from brailleInput.BrailleInputGesture. This allows display commands and braille input to be handled by the same gesture class.
- You can now use comHelper.getActiveObject to get an active COM object from a normal process when NVDA is running with the UIAccess privilege. (#2483)


= 2012.3 =
此版本的亮点包括支持亚洲字符输入;对Windows 8触摸屏的实验性支持;报告页码和改进对Adobe Reader中表格的支持;在关注的表格行和Windows列表视图控件中的表格导航命令;支持更多的盲文显示器;并在Microsoft Excel中报告行和列标题。

== 新特性 ==
- NVDA现在可以在所有应用程序中使用IME和文本服务输入方法支持亚洲字符输入，其中包括：
 - 报告和导航候选;
 - 组成字符串的报告和导航;和
 - 报告阅读字符串。
- 现在在Adobe Reader文档中报告了下划线和删除线的存在。 (#2410)
- 当启用Windows粘滞键功能时，NVDA修改键现在将像其他修改键一样运行。这使您可以使用NVDA修改键，而无需在按下其他键时按住它。 (#230)
- 自动报告列和行标题现在在Microsoft Excel中受支持。按NVDA + shift + c设置包含列标题的行和NVDA + shift + r设置包含行标题的列。快速连续按下两个命令清除设置。 (#1519)
- 支持HIMS Braille Sense，盲文EDGE和SyncBraille盲文显示器。 (#1266, #1267)
- 当Windows 8 Toast通知出现时，如果启用了帮助提示框的报告，NVDA会报告它们。 (#2143)
- Windows 8触摸屏的实验性支持，包括：
 - 移动它时，直接在手指下读取文本
 - 许多用于执行对象导航，文本审阅和其他NVDA命令的手势。
- 支持VIP泥浆。 (#1728)
- 在Adobe Reader中，如果表格有摘要，现在显示。 (#2465)
- 在Adobe Reader中，现在可以报告表格行和列标题。 (#2193, #2527, #2528)
- 新语言：阿姆哈拉语，韩语，尼泊尔语，斯洛文尼亚语。
- 在Microsoft Outlook 2007中输入电子邮件地址时，NVDA现在可以读取自动完成建议。 (#689)
- 新的eSpeak语音变体：Gene，Gene2。 (#2512)
- 在Adobe Reader中，现在可以报告页码。 (#2534)
 - 在Reader XI中，报告页面标签会在哪里出现，反映了不同部分页码编号的变化等。在早期版本中，这是不可能的，只有连续页码被报告。
- 现在可以通过快速按三次NVDA + control + r或从NVDA菜单中选择重置为出厂默认值，将NVDA的配置重置为出厂默认设置。 (#2086)
- 支持日本Telesoft的Seika版本3,4和5以及Seika80盲文显示器。 (#2452)
- Freedom Scientific PAC Mate和焦点盲文显示器上的第一个和最后一个顶部路由按钮现在可用于向后和向前滚动。 (#2556)
- Freedom Scientific Focus盲文显示器现在支持更多功能，例如高级栏，摇杆和某些常用操作的点组合。 (#2516)
- 在使用IAccessible2的应用程序（如Mozilla应用程序）中，现在可以在浏览模式之外报告表行和列标题。 (#926)
- 初步支持Microsoft Word 2013中的文档控制。 (#2543)
- 现在可以在使用IAccessible2的应用程序（如Mozilla应用程序）中报告文本对齐。 (#2612)
- 当关注具有多列的表格行或标准Windows列表视图控件时，您现在可以使用表格导航命令访问单个单元格。 (#828)
- 新盲文翻译表：爱沙尼亚语0级，葡萄牙语8点电脑盲文，意大利6点电脑盲文。 (#2319, #2662)
- 如果系统中安装了NVDA，则直接打开NVDA附加软件包（例如从Windows资源管理器或在网络浏览器下载后）将会将其安装到NVDA中。 (#2306)
- 支持更新型号的Papenmeier BRAILLEX盲文显示器。 (#1265)
- 现在报告Windows 7及更高版本上的Windows资源管理器列表项目的位置信息（例如4的1）。这还包括支持itemIndex和itemCount自定义属性的所有UIAutomation控件。 (#2643)


== 更改 ==
- 在NVDA Review Cursor首选项对话框中，Follow键盘焦点选项已重命名为遵循系统焦点以与NVDA中其他位置使用的术语保持一致。
- 当盲文被连接检查并且光标位于非文本对象（例如可编辑的文本字段）的对象上时，光标路由键现在将激活该对象。 (#2386)
- 对于新配置，默认情况下保存退出时的设置选项处于启用状态。
- 当更新以前安装的NVDA副本时，如果桌面快捷键被用户手动更改为不同的内容，则该桌面快捷键不会再被强制控制为+ alt + n。 (#2572)
- 插件管理器中的插件列表现在显示其状态之前的程序包名称。 (#2548)
- 如果安装当前安装的插件的相同或其他版本，NVDA会询问您是否希望更新插件，而不是仅显示错误并中止安装。 (#2501)
- 对象导航命令（报告当前对象命令除外）现在报告的冗长度较低。您仍然可以使用报告当前对象命令获取额外的信息。 (#2560)
- 更新liblouis盲文翻译器到2.5.1。 (#2319, #2480, #2662, #2672)
- NVDA键盘命令快速参考文档已被重命名为命令快速参考，因为它现在包括触摸命令以及键盘命令。
- 浏览模式中的元素列表现在会记住每次在同一个NVDA会话中显示对话框时显示的最后一个元素类型（例如链接，标题或地标）。 (#365)
- Windows 8中的大多数Metro应用程序（例如邮件，日历）不再为整个应用程序启用浏览模式。
- 更新Handy Tech BrailleDriver COM-Server到1.4.2.0。


== Bug 修复 ==
- 在Windows Vista和更高版本中，NVDA不再会在将Windows按键锁定时解锁Windows时不正确地将Windows键视为被按下。 (#1856)
- 在Adobe Reader中，行标题现在可以正确识别为表格单元格;即报告坐标，并且可以使用表格导航命令访问它们。 (#2444)
- 在Adobe Reader中，现在可以正确处理跨多个列和/或行的表格单元格。 (#2437, #2438, #2450)
- NVDA安装包现在在执行之前检查其完整性。 (#2475)
- 如果下载NVDA更新失败，临时下载文件现在被删除。 (#2477)
- 在将用户配置复制到系统配置（用于Windows登录和其他安全屏幕）时，NVDA在以管理员身份运行时不会再冻结。 (#2485)
- Windows 8 Start Screen上的Tiles现在在语音和盲文中表现更好。名称不再重复，未选择不再在所有图块上报告，并且实况状态信息被呈现为图块的描述（例如，天气图块的当前温度）。
- 在Microsoft Outlook和其他标记为受保护的标准编辑控件中阅读密码字段时，不再公布密码。 (#2021)
- 在Adobe Reader中，表单字段的更改现在可正确地反映在浏览模式中。 (#2529)
- 支持Microsoft Word拼写检查器的改进，包括更准确地读取当前的拼写错误，以及在Windows Vista或更高版本上运行已安装的NVDA副本时支持拼写检查器的功能。
- 现在包含非英文字符的插件包可以在大多数情况下正确安装。 (#2505)
- 在Adobe Reader中，文本语言在更新或滚动到时不再丢失。 (#2544)
- 现在安装插件时，确认对话框现在可正确显示插件的本地化名称（如果可用）。 (#2422)
- 在使用UI自动化的应用程序（如.net和Silverlight应用程序）中，控件（如滑块）的数值计算已得到更正。 (#2417)
- 报告进度条的配置现在可用于NVDA安装时创建的不确定进度条，创建便携式副本等。 (#2574)
- 当安全的Windows屏幕（例如锁定屏幕）处于活动状态时，NVDA命令不能再从盲文显示屏执行。 (#2449)
- 在浏览模式下，如果正在显示的文本发生更改，则盲文现在会更新。 (#2074)
- 当在安全的Windows屏幕（如锁定屏幕）上时，来自直接通过NVDA说出或显示盲文的应用程序的消息现在被忽略。
- 在浏览模式下，当在最后一个字符上时，不可能使用右箭头键从文档的底部脱落，或者当该容器是文档中的最后一个项目时，跳到容器的末尾不再可能脱落文档的底部。 (#2463)
- 报告Web应用程序中的对话框文本时（特别是没有使用aria-describedby属性的ARIA对话框），不再错误地包含无关内容。 (#2390)
- NVDA不再错误地报告或查找MSHTML文档（例如Internet Explorer）中的某些编辑字段，尤其是在网页作者使用明确的ARIA角色的情况下。 (#2435)
- 在Windows命令控制台中输入单词时，现在可以正确处理退格键。 (#2586)
- Microsoft Excel中的单元坐标现在再次以盲文显示。
- 在Microsoft Word中，NVDA不再让你停留在带有列表格式的段落上，当试图用左光标或Ctrl +向左光标导出项目符号或数字时。 (#2402)
- 在Mozilla应用程序的浏览模式下，某些列表框（特别是ARIA列表框）中的项目不再被错误地呈现。
- 在Mozilla应用程序中的浏览模式下，现在使用正确的标签呈现使用不正确的标签或只是空白呈现的某些控件。
- 在Mozilla应用程序的浏览模式下，一些无关的空白已被消除。
- 在Web浏览器的浏览模式下，某些显式标记为表示的图形（具体而言，使用alt =“”属性）现在可以正确忽略。
- 在网络浏览器中，NVDA现在隐藏屏幕阅读器标记为隐藏的内容（具体来说，使用aria-hidden属性）。 (#2117)
- 无论符号级别如何，负值货币金额（例如 -  $ 123）现在均可正确说出为负值。 (#2625)
- 在说全部的时候，NVDA将不再错误地恢复为行不结束句子的默认语言。 (#2630)
- 字体信息现在可以在Adobe Reader 10.1及更高版本中正确检测到。 (#2175)
- 在Adobe Reader中，如果提供了替代文本，则只会呈现该文本。以前，有时会包含无关文本。 (#2174)
- 在文档包含应用程序的情况下，应用程序的内容不再包含在浏览模式中。这可以防止在导航时意外移动到应用程序内部。您可以使用与嵌入对象相同的方式与应用程序进行交互。 (#990)
- 在Mozilla应用程序中，旋转按钮的值现在可以在更改时正确报告。 (#2653)
- 更新对Adobe Digital Editions的支持，以便它可以在2.0版本中运行。 (#2688)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML文档中的组合框上按NVDA + upArrow时，将不会再错误地读取所有项目。相反，只有活动项目才会被阅读。 (#2337)
- 在模式或替换字段中使用数字（＃）符号时，语音词典现在可以正确保存。 (#961)
- 用于MSHTML文档（例如Internet Explorer）的浏览模式现在可以正确显示隐藏内容中包含的可见内容（具体来说，具有可见风格的元素：在风格可见性：隐藏的元素内可见）。 (#2097)
- Windows XP安全中心中的链接不会在其名称后面报告随机垃圾。 (#1331)
- 将鼠标移到它们上方而不是保持沉默时，UI自动化文本控件（例如，Windows 7“开始”菜单中的搜索栏）现在可正确宣布。
- 在说全部的时候不再报告键盘布局变化，这对于包括阿拉伯文字的多语言文档尤其是有问题的。 (#1676)
- 某些UI Automation可编辑文本控件（例如Windows 7/8“开始”菜单中的“搜索框”）的全部内容在每次更改时都不再公布。
- 在Windows 8开始屏幕上的组之间移动时，未标记的组不再将其第一个图块宣布为组的名称。 (#2658)
- 打开Windows 8开始屏幕时，焦点会正确放置在第一个图块上，而不是跳转到可能导致导航混淆的开始屏幕的根目录。 (#2720)
- 当用户的配置文件路径包含某些多字节字符时，NVDA将不会再启动失败。 (#2729)
- 在Google Chrome的浏览模式下，标签文本现在可以正确显示。
- 在浏览模式下，菜单按钮现在可以正确报告。
- 在OpenOffice.org/LibreOffice Calc中，阅读电子表格单元现在可以正常工作。 (#2765)
- NVDA可以再次在Yahoo!上运行从Internet Explorer使用邮件列表。 (#2780)


== 开发者更改 ==
- Previous log file is now copied to nvda-old.log on NVDA initialization. Therefore, if NVDA crashes or is restarted, logging information from that session is still accessible for inspection. (#916)
- Fetching the role property in chooseNVDAObjectOverlayClasses no longer causes the role to be incorrect and thus not reported on focus for certain objects such as Windows command consoles and Scintilla controls. (#2569)
- The NVDA Preferences, Tools and Help menus are now accessible as attributes on gui.mainFrame.sysTrayIcon named preferencesMenu, toolsMenu and helpMenu, respectively. This allows plugins to more easily add items to these menus.
- The navigatorObject_doDefaultAction script in globalCommands has been renamed to review_activate.
- Gettext message contexts are now supported. This allows multiple translations to be defined for a single English message depending on the context. (#1524)
 - This is done using the pgettext(context, message) function.
 - This is supported for both NVDA itself and add-ons.
 - xgettext and msgfmt from GNU gettext must be used to create any PO and MO files. The Python tools do not support message contexts.
 - For xgettext, pass the --keyword=pgettext:1c,2 command line argument to enable inclusion of message contexts.
 - See http://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/Contexts.html#Contexts for more information.
- It is now possible to access built-in NVDA modules where they have been overridden by third party modules. See the nvdaBuiltin module for details.
- Add-on translation support can now be used within the add-on installTasks module. (#2715)


= 2012.2.1 =
此版本主要解决了几个潜在的安全问题（通过将Python升级到2.7.3）。


= 2012.2 =
该版本的亮点包括内置安装程序和便携式创作功能，自动更新，新NVDA插件的轻松管理，Microsoft Word中图形的公告，对Windows 8 Metro风格应用程序的支持以及一些重要的错误修复。 

== 新特性 ==
- NVDA现在可以自动检查，下载和安装更新。 (#73)
- 通过添加插件管理器（可在NVDA菜单的工具下找到），使您可以安装和卸载包含插件和驱动程序的新的NVDA附加软件包（.nvda-addon文件），从而扩展了NVDA的功能。请注意，插件管理器不会显示较早的自定义插件和驱动程序，而是手动将其复制到您的配置目录中。 (#213)
- 使用已安装的NVDA版本时，Windows 8 Metro风格应用程序现在可以使用许多更常见的NVDA功能，包括键入字符的说明以及Web文档的浏览模式（包括对Internet Explorer 10的城域版本的支持）。 NVDA的便携式副本无法访问城市风格的应用程序。 (#1801) 
- 在浏览模式文档（Internet Explorer，Firefox等）中，您现在可以分别使用shift +和/或跳转到某些包含元素（如列表和表格）的开始和结束位置。 (#123)
- 新语言：希腊语。
- 现在NVDA可以报告Microsoft Word文档中的报告图形和替代文本。 (#2282, #1541)


== 更改 ==
- Microsoft Excel中单元格坐标的公告现在位于内容之后而不是之前，现在只有在文档格式设置对话框中启用报表表格和报表表格单元格坐标设置时才会包含该单元坐标。 (#320)
- NVDA现在被整合在一个包中。现在只有一个文件在运行时将启动NVDA的临时副本，并允许您安装或生成便携式发行版，而不是将便携版和安装程序版本分开。 (#1715)
- NVDA现在总是安装在所有系统上的Program Files中。如果之前没有安装，那么更新先前的安装也会自动的移动它。


== Bug 修复==
- 启用自动语言切换后，如果适当标记，内容（例如图形的替代文本以及Mozilla Gecko中其他特定控件（例如Firefox）的标签现在会以正确的语言报告。
- 现在在BibleSeeker（和其他TRxRichEdit控件）中的SayAll不再停留在一段中间。
- 在Windows 8资源管理器文件属性（permitions选项卡）和Windows 8 Windows Update中找到的列表现在可正确读取。
- 修复了MS Word中可能冻结的情况，这会导致从文档中获取文本花费超过2秒钟（超长行或目录）。 (#2191)
- 在空格后面跟着特定的标点符号的情况下，分词符的检测现在可以正常工作。 (#1656)
- 在Adobe Reader浏览模式下，现在可以使用快速导航和元素列表导航到没有关卡的标题。 (#2181)
- 在Winamp中，当您移动到播放列表编辑器中的其他项目时，盲文现在可以正确更新。 (#1912)
- 元素列表中的树（可用于浏览模式文档）现在的大小适当，以显示每个元素的文本。 (#2276)
- 在使用Java Access Bridge的应用程序中，可编辑文本字段现在可以在盲文中正确显示。 (#2284)
- 在使用java Access Bridge的应用程序中，可编辑文本字段在某些情况下不会再报告陌生字符。 (#1892)
- 在使用Java Access Bridge的应用程序中，如果在可编辑文本字段的末尾，则当前报告的行现在可以正确报告。 (#1892)
- 在使用Mozilla Gecko 14和更高版本（例如Firefox 14）的应用程序的浏览模式下，快速导航现在适用于块引用和嵌入对象。 (#2287)
- 在Internet Explorer 9中，当焦点在特定地标或可聚焦元素（特别是可聚焦或具有ARIA地标性作用的div元素）内移动时，NVDA不再读取不需要的内容。
- NVDA桌面和开始菜单快捷方式的NVDA图标现在可以在64位版本的Windows上正确显示。 (#354)


== 开发者更改 ==
- Due to the replacement of the previous NSIS installer for NVDA with a built-in installer in Python, it is no longer necessary for translaters to maintain a langstrings.txt file for the installer. All localization strings are now managed by gettext po files.


= 2012.1 =
此版本的亮点包括更流利地阅读盲文的功能;以盲文形式显示文档格式;在Microsoft Word中访问更多格式化信息并提高性能;并支持iTunes Store。

== 新特性 ==
- NVDA可以按照输入的顺序宣布当前行的前导制表符和空格的数量。这可以通过在文档格式对话框中选择报告行缩进来启用。 (#373)
- NVDA现在可以检测由备选键盘输入仿真产生的按键，例如屏幕键盘和语音识别软件。
- NVDA现在可以检测Windows命令控制台中的颜色。
- 粗体，斜体和下划线现在用盲文标示，使用适合于所配置翻译表的符号。 (#538)
- 现在Microsoft Word文档中报告了更多信息，其中包括：
 - 内联信息，如脚注和尾注号码，标题级别，评论的存在，表格嵌套级别，链接和文本颜色;
 - 在输入文档部分时进行报告，例如评论故事，脚注和尾注故事以及页眉和页脚故事。
- 盲文现在使用点7和8表示选定的文本。 (#889)
- 盲文现在报告有关文档中控件的信息，如链接，按钮和标题。 (#202)
- 支持hedo ProfiLine和MobilLine USB盲文显示器。 (#1863, #1897)
- NVDA现在可以默认情况下避免盲文分词。这可以在盲文设置对话框中禁用。 (#1890, #1946)
- 现在可以通过段落而不是线条来显示盲文，这可以允许更流畅地阅读大量文本。这可以使用盲文设置对话框中的阅读按段落选项进行配置。 (#1891)
- 在浏览模式下，您可以使用盲文显示来激活光标下的对象。这是通过按下光标所在的光标路由键来完成的（如果光标不在那里，则意味着需要按两次）。 (#1893)
- 基本支持iTunes中的网络区域，例如商店。其他使用WebKit 1的应用程序也可能受支持。 (#734)
- 在Adobe Digital Editions 1.8.1及更高版本的书籍中，使用朗读全部功能时，页面现在会自动翻转。 (#1978)
- 新的盲文翻译表：葡萄牙语2级，冰岛8点电脑盲文，泰米尔语1级，西班牙语8点电脑盲文，波斯语1级。 (#2014)
- 您现在可以配置是否从文档格式首选项对话框报告文档中的框架。 (#1900)
- 睡眠模式在使用OpenBook时自动启用。 (#1209)
- 在Poedit中，翻译维护者现在可以阅读翻译并自动提取评论。未翻译或模糊的信息标有星号，当您导航时会听到嘟嘟声。 (#1811)
- 支持HumanWare Brailliant BI和B系列盲文显示器。 (#1990)
- 新语言：挪威语，繁体中文（香港）。


== 更改 ==
- 如果打开自动语言切换并且有适当的语言信息可用，则用于描述当前字符或拼写当前单词或行的命令将根据文本拼写成适当的语言。
- 更新eSpeak语音合成器到1.46.02。
- NVDA现在会截断从图形和链接URL中猜出的非常长（30个字符或更多）的名称，因为它们很可能是垃圾，妨碍了阅读。 (#1989)
- 以盲文显示的一些信息已被缩写。 (#1955, #2043)
- 当插入符或复查光标移动时，盲文现在以与手动滚动时相同的方式滚动。当盲文被配置为按段落阅读和/或避免分词时，这使得它更适合。 (#1996)
- 更新新的西班牙语1级盲文翻译表。
- 更新liblouis盲文翻译器到2.4.1。


== Bug 修复==
- 在Windows 8中，焦点不再被错误地从Windows资源管理器搜索字段中移开，该字段不允许NVDA与它进行交互。
- 在阅读和导航Microsoft Word文档时主要性能得到改进，同时启用了格式化的自动报告功能，因此现在可以很轻松地校对阅读格式等。对于某些用户来说，性能也可能会提高。
- 浏览模式现在用于全屏Adobe Flash内容。
- 在某些情况下，如果将音频输出设备设置为默认设置（Microsoft Sound Mapper）以外的其他设备时使用Microsoft Speech API版本5语音，则会降低音频质量。 (#749)
- 再次允许NVDA与“无语音”合成器一起使用，完全依靠盲文或语音查看器。 (#1963)
- 对象导航命令不再报告“没有孩子”和“没有父母”，而是报告符合文档的消息。
- 当NVDA配置为使用英语以外的语言时，标签键的名称现在以正确的语言报告。
- 在Mozilla Gecko（例如Firefox）中，NVDA不再间歇性地切换到浏览模式，而浏览文档中的菜单。 (#2025)
- 在计算器中，退格键现在报告更新的结果，而不报告任何内容。 (#2030)
- 在浏览模式下，将鼠标移动到当前导航器对象命令现在路由到查看光标处的对象中心而不是左上角，从而使其在某些情况下更加准确。 (#2029)
- 在启用焦点更改的自动对焦模式的浏览模式下，对焦于工具栏现在将切换到对焦模式。 (#1339)
- 报告标题命令在Adobe Reader中再次正常工作。
- 使用自动对焦模式启用焦点更改时，焦点模式现在可以正确用于聚焦表格单元;例如在ARIA网格中。 (#1763)
- 在iTunes中，某些列表中的位置信息现在可以正确报告。
- 在Adobe Reader中，某些链接不再被视为包含只读可编辑文本字段。
- 报告对话框文本时，某些可编辑文本字段的标签不再错误地包含在内。 (#1960)
- 如果启用对象描述的报告，则再次报告分组的描述。
- Windows资源管理器驱动器属性对话框的文本中现在包含人类可读的大小。
- 属性页面文本的双重报告在某些情况下被抑制。 (#218)
- 改进了对可编辑文本字段中插入符号的跟踪，这些编辑文本字段依赖写入屏幕的文本。特别是，这改进了Microsoft Excel单元格编辑器和Eudora消息编辑器中的编辑。 (#1658)
- 在Firefox 11中，移动到包含虚拟缓冲区命令（NVDA +ctrl+空格）现在可以像逃离Flash内容等嵌入对象一样工作。
- 当NVDA位于包含非ASCII字符的目录中时，它现在可以正确重新启动（例如，在更改已配置的语言之后）。 (#2079)
- 盲文正确地遵守报告对象快捷键，位置信息和说明的设置。
- 在Mozilla应用程序中，启用盲文后，浏览和对焦模式之间的切换不再缓慢。 (#2095)
- 使用一些可编辑文本字段中的盲文光标路由键将光标路由到行/段末尾的空格现在可以正常工作，而不是路由到文本的开头。 (#2096)
- NVDA再次与Audiologic Tts3合成器正常工作。 (#2109)
- Microsoft Word文档正确处理为多行。这导致盲文在文档聚焦时更加适当。
- 在Microsoft Internet Explorer中，当关注某些罕见的控件时，错误不再发生。 (#2121)
- 用户改变标点/符号的发音现在将立即生效，而不需要重新启动NVDA或禁用自动语言切换。
- 使用eSpeak时，在某些情况下，NVDA日志查看器的“另存为”对话框中的语音不再保持沉默。 (#2145)


== 开发者 更改 ==
- There is now a remote Python console for situations where remote debugging is useful. See the Developer Guide for details.
- The base path of NVDA's code is now stripped from tracebacks in the log to improve readability. (#1880)
- TextInfo objects now have an activate() method to activate the position represented by the TextInfo.
 - This is used by braille to activate the position using cursor routing keys on a braille display. However, there may be other callers in future.
- TreeInterceptors and NVDAObjects which only expose one page of text at a time can support automatic page turns during say all by using the textInfos.DocumentWithPageTurns mix-in. (#1978)
- Several control and output constants have been renamed or moved. (#228)
 - speech.REASON_* constants have been moved to controlTypes.
 - In controlTypes, speechRoleLabels and speechStateLabels have been renamed to just roleLabels and stateLabels, respectively.
- Braille output is now logged at level input/output. First, the untranslated text of all regions is logged, followed by the braille cells of the window being displayed. (#2102)
- subclasses of the sapi5 synthDriver can now override _getVoiceTokens and extend __init__ to support custom voice tokens such as with sapi.spObjectTokenCategory to get tokens from a custom registry location.


= 2011.3 =
此版本的亮点包括在阅读具有适当语言信息的文档时自动进行语音切换;支持64位Java运行时环境;在Mozilla应用程序中以浏览模式报告文本格式;更好地处理应用程序崩溃和死机;和Windows 8的初始修补程序。

== 新特性 ==
- 当使用适当的语言信息阅读某些网页/ pdf文档时，NVDA现在可以即时更改eSpeak合成器语言。自动语言/方言切换可以在“语音设置”对话框中打开和关闭。 (#845) 
- 现在支持Java Access Bridge 2.0.2，其中包括对64位Java运行时环境的支持。
- 在Mozilla Gecko（例如Firefox）中，使用对象导航时现在会公布标题级别。
- 现在可以在Mozilla Gecko中使用浏览模式（例如Firefox和Thunderbird）报告文本格式。 (#394)
- 带有下划线和/或删除线的文本现在可以在标准的IAccessible2文本控件中检测和报告，例如在Mozilla应用程序中。
- 在Adobe Reader的浏览模式下，现在报告表行和列计数。
- 增加了对Microsoft Speech Platform合成器的支持。 (#1735)
- 现在报告IBM Lotus Symphony中插入符的页码和行号。 (#1632)
- 现在可以通过语音设置对话框来配置朗读大写字母时音高变化的百分比。但是，这确实取代了较大的资本复选框复选框（因此要关闭此功能将百分比设置为0）。 (#255)
- 文本和背景颜色现在包含在Microsoft Excel中单元格的格式报告中。 (#1655)
- 在使用Java Access Bridge的应用程序中，activate current navigator object命令现在适用于控件。 (#1744)
- 新的语言：泰米尔语。
- 对设计科学MathPlayer的基本支持。


== 更改 ==
- 如果NVDA崩溃，它现在会自行重启。
- 以盲文显示的一些信息已被缩写。 (#1288)
- Read活动窗口脚本（NVDA + b）已得到改进，可以过滤掉无用的控件，现在也更容易静音。 (#1499)
- 当浏览模式文档加载时，自动显示所有内容现在都可以通过浏览模式设置对话框中的设置进行选择。 (#414)  
- 当试图读取状态栏（Desktop NVDA + end）时，如果无法找到真实状态栏对象，NVDA将改为使用写入显示器的文本的底行来显示活动应用程序。 (#649)
- 当在浏览模式下阅读文档时，NVDA将在标题和其他块级元素的末尾暂停，而不是将文本与下一批文本一起说成长句。
- 在浏览模式下，按下enter或空格选项卡现在激活它，而不是切换到对焦模式。 (#1760)
- 更新eSpeak语音合成器到1.45.47。


== Bug 修复 ==
- 当作者指示不应显示这些内容（即列表样式为“无”）时，NVDA不再为Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中的列表显示项目符号或编号。 (#1671)
- 冻结时重新启动NVDA（例如通过按Ctrl + Alt + n）不再退出先前的副本，而不会启动新的副本。
- 在某些情况下，在Windows命令控制台中按退格键或箭头键不会再导致奇怪的结果。 (#1612)
- 现在可以正确报告WPF组合框中的选定项目（以及可能使用UI自动化公开的某些其他组合框），但不允许进行文本编辑。
- 在Adobe Reader的浏览模式下，现在总是可以通过移动到下一行并移动到前一行命令来移动到标题行中的下一行，反之亦然。此外，标题行不再报告为行0。 (#1731)
- 在Adobe Reader的浏览模式下，现在可以移动到（并因此移动）表格中的空单元格。
- 盲点位置信息（例如0级0的0）不再以盲文报告。
- 当盲文被审查时，它现在能够在平面审查中显示内容。 (#1711)
- 在某些情况下，文本控件的文本不再在盲文显示器上显示两次，例如，从写字板文件开始滚动回来。
- 在Internet Explorer中的浏览模式下，按下文件上传按钮上的回车按钮，现在可以正确显示对话框以选择要上传的文件，而不是切换到对焦模式。 (#1720)
- 如果该应用程序的睡眠模式当前处于打开状态，则动态内容更改（如在Dos控制台中）将不再公布。 (#1662)
- 在浏览模式下，alt + upArrow和alt + downArrow折叠和展开组合框的行为已得到改进。 (#1630)
- NVDA现在可以从更多情况中恢复，例如停止响应的应用程序，这些应用程序之前会导致它完全冻结。 (#1408)
- 对于Mozilla Gecko（Firefox等）浏览模式文档，NVDA将不再无法在非常特殊的情况下渲染文本，其中元素的样式为display：table。 (#1373)
- 当焦点移入其中时，NVDA将不再公布标签控件。停止Firefox（Gecko）和Internet Explorer（MSHTML）中的某些表单字段的标签的双重公告。 (#1650)
- 使用control + v粘贴到Microsoft Excel后，NVDA不再无法读取Microsoft Excel中的单元格。 (#1781)
- 在Adobe Reader中，在焦点模式下移动到不同页面上的控件时，不再公布有关文档的无关信息。 (#1659)
- 在Mozilla Gecko应用程序（例如Firefox）的浏览模式下，现在检测到切换按钮并正确报告。 (#1757)
- NVDA现在可以正确读取Windows 8开发人员预览中的Windows资源管理器地址栏。
- NVDA将不再在Windows 8开发人员预览版中由于错误的字形转换而使诸如winver和wordpad等应用程序崩溃。
- 在使用Mozilla Gecko 10和更高版本（例如Firefox 10）的应用程序中，浏览模式下，当使用目标定位器加载页面时，光标的定位经常更加正确。 (#360)
- 在Mozilla Gecko应用程序（例如Firefox）的浏览模式下，现在渲染图像映射的标签。
- 启用鼠标跟踪功能后，将鼠标移到特定的可编辑文本字段上（如Synaptics Pointing Device Settings和SpeechLab SpeakText）不会再导致应用程序崩溃。 (#672)
- NVDA现在可以在与Windows XP分发的应用程序中的几个关于对话框中正常运行，包括记事本中的关于对话框和关于Windows对话框。 (#1853, #1855)
- 修复了在Windows编辑控件中按字查看的问题。 (#1877)
- 在焦点模式下使用leftArrow，upArrow或pageUp移出可编辑文本字段时，如果启用了插入符号移动的自动对焦模式，现在可以正确切换到浏览模式。 (#1733)


== 开发者更改 ==
- NVDA can now instruct speech synthesizers to switch languages for particular sections of speech.
 - To support this, drivers must handle speech.LangChangeCommand in sequences past to SynthDriver.speak().
 - SynthDriver objects should also provide the language argument to VoiceInfo objects (or override the language attribute to retrieve the current language). Otherwise, NVDA's user interface language will be used.


= 2011.2 =
此版本的亮点包括标点和符号方面的重大改进，包括可配置的级别，自定义标签和字符描述;在朗读全部的时候，在行尾没有停顿;在Internet Explorer中改进对ARIA的支持;在Adobe Reader中更好地支持XFA / LiveCycle PDF文档;访问更多应用程序中写入屏幕的文本;并可访问写入屏幕的文本的格式和颜色信息。

== 新特性 ==
- 现在可以通过快速连续两次按查看当前字符脚本来听到任何给定字符的描述。对于英文字符，这是标准的英文音标。对于诸如繁体中文的象形语言，提供了使用给定符号的一个或多个示例短语。同时按下查看当前单词或查看当前行三次将使用第一个描述来拼写单词/行。 (#55)
- 对于诸如Mozilla Thunderbird这样的应用程序的平面评论，可以看到更多文字，这些应用程序将文字作为字形直接写入显示屏。
- 现在可以从标点和符号公告的几个级别中进行选择。 (#332)
- 当标点符号或其他符号重复四次以上时，重复次数现在被宣布，而不是朗读重复的符号。 (#43)
- 新的盲文翻译表：挪威8点电脑盲文，埃塞俄比亚1级，斯洛文尼亚1级，塞尔维亚1级。 (#1456)
- 当使用say all命令时，语音不再不自然地停在每行的末尾。 (#149)
- NVDA现在将宣布是否在Web浏览器中对某些内容进行排序（根据aria-sort属性）。 (#1500)
- 盲文图形现在可以在盲文显示器上正确显示。 (#1505)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，当焦点在一组控件（由一个字段集合）内移动时，NVDA现在将宣布组（名称）的名称。 (#535)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，现在可以使用aria标签的By和aria描述的属性。
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，对ARIA列表，gridcell，滑块和进度条控件的支持得到了改进。
- 用户现在可以更改标点符号和其他符号的发音，以及他们所朗读的符号级别。 (#271, #1516)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，当使用control + pageUp或control + pageDown切换工作表时，现在会报告活动工作表的名称。 (#760)
- 使用Tab键NVDA在Microsoft Word中导航表格时，现在将在移动时宣布当前单元格。 (#159)
- 您现在可以配置是否从文档格式首选项对话框报告表格单元坐标。 (#719)
- NVDA现在可以检测写入屏幕的文本的格式和颜色。
- 在Outlook Express / Windows Mail / Windows Live Mail消息列表中，NVDA现在将宣布消息未读的事实，以及在对话线程中是否展开或折叠。 (#868)
- 现在eSpeak的速率提升设置可以提高三倍的速率。
- 支持从Windows 7时钟访问的日期和时间信息对话框中的日历控件。 (#1637)
- 为MDV Lilli盲文显示器添加了其他键绑定。 (#241)
- 新语言：保加利亚语，阿尔巴尼亚语。


== 更改 ==
- 要将插入符号移动到复查光标，现在快速连续两次按下移动焦点到导航器对象脚本（桌面NVDA + shift + numpadMinus，笔记本电脑NVDA + shift +退格键）。这可以释放键盘上的更多按键。 (#837)
- 要听取复查光标下字符的十进制和十六进制表示，现在按查看当前字符三次而不是两次，因为两次现在说明字符描述。
- 更新eSpeak语音合成器到1.45.03。 (#1465)
- Mozilla Gecko应用程序不再公布Mozilla Gecko应用程序中的布局表，同时在处于焦点模式或文档外部时移动焦点。
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，浏览模式现在适用于ARIA应用程序中的文档。 (#1452)
- 更新liblouis盲文翻译器到2.3.0。
- 当处于浏览模式并跳转到具有quicknav或焦点的控件时，如果控件的描述有一个，则现在宣布该控件的说明。
- 进度条现在以眉毛模式宣布。
- 现在，在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中标记为呈现ARIA角色的节点现在被过滤掉了简单的审查和焦点血统。
- NVDA的用户界面和文档现在将虚拟缓冲区称为浏览模式，因为术语“虚拟缓冲区”对大多数用户来说是毫无意义的。 (#1509)
- 当用户希望将其用户设置复制到系统配置文件以用于登录屏幕等，并且其设置包含自定义插件时，现在警告他们这可能存在安全风险。 (#1426)
- NVDA服务不再在用户输入桌面上启动和停止NVDA。
- 在Windows XP和Windows Vista上，即使NVDA可通过平台更新获得，NVDA也不再使用UI自动化。尽管使用UI自动化可以提高一些现代应用程序的可访问性，但在XP和Vista上，使用它时冻结，崩溃和性能损失过多。 (#1437)
- 在使用Mozilla Gecko 2及更高版本（例如Firefox 4及更高版本）的应用程序中，现在可以在浏览模式下读取文档，然后完全加载完成。
- NVDA现在会在焦点移动到内部控件时宣布容器的状态（例如，如果焦点移动到仍在加载它的文档中，它将报告为繁忙）。
- NVDA的用户界面和文档不再使用关于对象导航的术语“第一个孩子”和“父母”，因为这些术语对于许多用户来说是令人困惑的。
- 某些具有子菜单的菜单项不再报告折叠。
- reportCurrentFormatting脚本（NVDA + f）现在报告审阅光标位置的格式，而不是系统插入符/焦点。默认情况下，审查光标跟随插入符号，大多数人不应该注意到区别。然而，这现在使用户能够在移动审阅光标时找出格式，例如在平面审查中。


== Bug 修复 ==
- 当NVDA +空格强制对焦模式不再自动切换回浏览模式时，在浏览模式文档中折叠组合框。 (#1386)
- 在Gecko（例如Firefox）和MSHTML（例如Internet Explorer）文档中，NVDA现在可以在以前在单独行上呈现的同一行上正确呈现某些文本。 (#1378)
- 当盲文连接进行审阅并且导航器对象被移动到浏览模式文档时（无论是手动还是焦点更改），盲文将适当地显示浏览模式内容。 (#1406, #1407)
- 当标点符号被禁用时，某些标点符号在使用某些合成器时不再被错误地朗读出来。 (#332)
- 加载不支持语音设置的合成器（如Audiologic Tts3）的配置时，问题不再发生。 (#1347)
- Skype Extras菜单现在正确读取。 (#648)
- 在启用Aero的Windows Vista / Windows 7屏幕上移动鼠标时，在鼠标设置对话框中检查亮度控制音量复选框不应该导致哔声的严重滞后。 (#1183)
- 当NVDA配置为使用笔记本电脑键盘布局时，NVDA +删除现在可以按照记录的方式工作，以报告当前导航器对象的尺寸。 (#1498)
- NVDA现在适当地尊重Internet Explorer文档中aria选择的属性。
- 当NVDA在浏览模式文档中自动切换到对焦模式时，它现在宣布关于焦点上下文的信息。例如，如果列表框项目获得焦点，则将首先公布列表框。 (#1491)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，ARIA列表框控件现在被树形化为列表，而不是列表项。
- 当只读可编辑文本控件获得焦点时，NVDA现在报告它是只读的。 (#1436)
- 在浏览模式下，NVDA现在对于只读可编辑文本字段的行为正确。
- 在浏览模式文档中，当设置aria-activedescendant时，NVDA不再错误地将焦点模式切换为不在焦点模式;例如当完成列表出现在一些自动完成控件中时。
- 在Adobe Reader中，当移动焦点或在浏览模式下使用快速导航时，现在会报告控件的名称。
- 在Adobe Reader的XFA PDF文档中，现在可以正确渲染按钮，链接和图形。
- 在Adobe Reader的XFA PDF文档中，所有元素现在都在单独的行中呈现。这是因为这些文档中的大部分（有时甚至整个文档）由于这些文档中结构的普遍缺失而没有中断地呈现。
- 修复了在Adobe Reader的XFA PDF文档中将焦点移入或移出可编辑文本字段时出现的问题。
- 在Adobe Reader的XFA PDF文档中，现在将报告对重点组合框的值的更改。
- 用户可以通过NVDA访问诸如在Outlook Express中选择颜色的组合框。 (#1340)
- 在使用空格作为数字组/千位分隔符的语言（如法语和德语）中，来自单独的文本块的数字不再作为单个数字发音。这对于包含数字的表格单元尤其有问题。 (#555)
- 现在，在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中具有ARIA描述角色的节点被归类为静态文本，而不是编辑字段。
- 修正了在浏览模式下焦点位于文档上时按下标签（例如，选项卡不当地移至Internet Explorer中的地址栏）时出现的各种问题。 (#720, #1367)
- 在阅读文本时输入列表时，NVDA现在朗读，例如，“列出5项”而不是“列表5项”。 (#1515)
- 在输入帮助模式下，即使脚本绕过输入帮助（如滚动盲文显示向前和向后命令），也会记录手势。
- 在输入帮助模式下，当在键盘上按住修饰符时，NVDA不再像修改自身一样报告修饰符;例如NVDA + NVDA。
- 在Adobe Reader文档中，按c或shift + c导航到组合框即可使用。
- 现在，可选表格行的选定状态以与列表和树视图项目相同的方式报告。
- 即使浏览模式下的内容已经在屏幕外悬浮，Firefox和其他Gecko应用程序中的控件现在也可以在浏览模式下激活。 (#801)
- 在显示消息对话框时，您不能再显示NVDA设置对话框，因为在这种情况下设置对话框被冻结。 (#1451)
- 在Microsoft Excel中，按住或快速按下键以在单元格之间移动或选择单元格时，不会出现滞后现象。
- 修复了NVDA服务的间歇性崩溃，这意味着NVDA停止在安全的Windows屏幕上运行。
- 修正了盲文显示中有时发生的问题，当更改导致正在显示的文本消失时。 (#1377)
- 现在可以导航Internet Explorer 9中的下载窗口并使用NVDA进行读取。 (#1280)
- 不可能同时意外启动多个NVDA副本。 (#507)
- 在慢速系统上，NVDA不再不适当地导致其主窗口在运行时一直显示。 (#726)
- 启动WPF应用程序时，NVDA不再在Windows XP上崩溃。 (#1437)
- 全部朗读，并通过评论全部朗读，现在可以在支持所有必需功能的UI自动化文本控件中工作。例如，您现在可以使用XPS查看器文档进行评论。
- NVDA不再不适当地将Outlook Express / Windows Live Mail消息规则中的某些列表项作为复选框分类。 (#576)
- 组合框不再被报告为具有子菜单。
- NVDA现在可以读取Microsoft Outlook中“收件人”，“抄送”和“密件抄送”字段中的收件人。 (#421)
- 修正了NVDA的“语音设置”对话框中的问题，其中滑块的值在更改时有时不会被报告。 (#1411)
- 在剪切和粘贴后，NVDA在Excel电子表格中移动时不会再失败。 (#1567)
- 在猜测颜色名称时，NVDA不再变得更糟糕，它宣布的颜色越多。
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，修复了无法阅读包含标有ARIA演示角色的iframe的罕见页面部分。 (#1569)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，修复了焦点在焦点模式下文档与多行可编辑文本字段之间无限次弹跳的罕见问题。 (#1566)
- 在Microsoft Word 2010中，NVDA现在将自动读取确认对话框。 (#1538)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件的多行可编辑文本字段中，第一行之后的行选择现在可正确报告。 (#1590)
- 在许多情况下改进了按字移动，包括浏览模式和Windows编辑控件。 (#1580)
- NVDA安装程序不再为香港版本的Windows Vista和Windows 7显示乱码文本。 (#1596)
- 如果配置包含该合成器的设置但缺少语音设置，则NVDA不会再无法加载Microsoft Speech API版本5合成器。 (#1599)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件的可编辑文本字段中，启用盲文后，NVDA不再滞后或冻结。
- 在firefox眉毛模式下，NVDA不再拒绝将具有ARIA角色的可聚焦节点内的内容包含在内。
- 在启用盲文的Microsoft Word中，第一页之后的页面上的行现在可以正确报告。 (#1603)
- 在Microsoft Word 2003中，可以在启用盲文后再次读取从右至左的文本行。 (#627)
- 在Microsoft Word中，当文档不以句尾结尾时，现在全部都可以正常工作。
- 在Windows Live Mail 2011中打开纯文本消息时，NVDA将正确地关注消息文档，以便读取它。
- 在Windows Live Mail的“移动到/复制到”对话框中时，NVDA不再暂时冻结或拒绝说话。 (#574)
- 在Outlook 2010中，NVDA现在将正确地跟踪消息列表中的焦点。 (#1285)
- MDV Lilli盲文显示器解决了一些USB连接问题。 (#241)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，在某些情况下（例如，在链接之后），浏览模式不再忽略空格。
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，浏览模式中删除了一些无关的换行符。具体而言，显示样式为None的HTML元素不再强制换行。 (#1685)
- 如果NVDA无法启动，则无法播放Windows临界停止声音不会再在日志文件中出现严重错误消息。


== 开发者 更改 ==
- Developer documentation can now be generated using SCons. See readme.txt at the root of the source distribution for details, including associated dependencies.
- Locales can now provide descriptions for characters. See the Character Descriptions section of the Developer Guide for details. (#55)
- Locales can now provide information about the pronunciation of specific punctuation and other symbols. See the Symbol Pronunciation section of the Developer Guide for details. (#332)
- You can now build NVDAHelper with several debugging options using the nvdaHelperDebugFlags SCons variable. See readme.txt at the root of the source distribution for details. (#1390)
- Synth drivers are now passed a sequence of text and speech commands to speak, instead of just text and an index.
 - This allows for embedded indexes, parameter changes, etc.
 - Drivers should implement SynthDriver.speak() instead of SynthDriver.speakText() and SynthDriver.speakCharacter().
 - The old methods will be used if SynthDriver.speak() is not implemented, but they are deprecated and will be removed in a future release.
- gui.execute() has been removed. wx.CallAfter() should be used instead.
- gui.scriptUI has been removed.
 - For message dialogs, use wx.CallAfter(gui.messageBox, ...).
 - For all other dialogs, real wx dialogs should be used instead.
 - A new gui.runScriptModalDialog() function simplifies using modal dialogs from scripts.
- Synth drivers can now support boolean settings. See SynthDriverHandler.BooleanSynthSetting.
- SCons now accepts a certTimestampServer variable specifying the URL of a timestamping server to use to timestamp authenticode signatures. (#1644)


= 2011.1.1 =
此版本修复了NVDA 2011.1中的一些安全问题和其他重要问题。

== Bug 修复 ==
- 当在登录，锁定，UAC和其他安全的Windows屏幕上运行时，NVDA菜单中的捐赠项目现在被禁用，因为这存在安全风险。 (#1419)
- 现在无法在安全桌面（锁屏，UAC屏幕和Windows登录）上复制或粘贴NVDA的用户界面，因为这存在安全风险。 (#1421)
- 在Firefox 4中，包含虚拟缓冲区命令（NVDA +ctrl+空格）的工作现在可以像逃离Flash内容之类的嵌入对象一样工作。 (#1429)
- 当使用命令键时，被移动的字符不再被错误地称为命令键。 (#1422)
- 当朗读命令键被启用时，按shift键以外的其他修饰符（例如control和alt）按空格现在被报告为命令键。 (#1424)
- 在登录，锁定，UAC和其他安全的Windows屏幕上运行时，日志记录现在完全禁用，因为这存在安全风险。 (#1435)
- 在输入帮助模式下，即使手势没有绑定到脚本（根据用户指南），现在手势也会被记录下来。 (#1425)


= 2011.1 =
此版本的亮点包括自动报告mIRC，PuTTY，Tera Term和SecureCRT中的文本输出;支持全球插件;在Microsoft Word中发布子弹和编号;用于盲文显示的附加键绑定，包括移至下一行和上一行的键;支持几款Baum，HumanWare和APH盲文显示器;并报告某些控件的颜色，包括IBM Lotus Symphony文本控件。

== 新特性 ==
- 现在可以报告某些控件的颜色。自动通知可以在文档格式首选项对话框中配置。也可以使用报告文本格式化命令（NVDA + f）按需报告。
 - 最初，这在标准IAccessible2可编辑文本控件（例如在Mozilla应用程序中），RichEdit控件（如在写字板中）和IBM Lotus Symphony文本控件中受支持。
- 在虚拟缓冲区中，您现在可以按页面进行选择（使用shift + pageDown和shift + pageUp）和段落（使用shift + control + downArrow和shift + control + upArrow）。 (#639)
- NVDA现在会自动报告mIRC，PuTTY，Tera Term和SecureCRT中的新文本输出。 (#936)
- 用户现在可以通过提供单个用户输入手势图来添加新的密钥绑定或覆盖NVDA中任何脚本的现有密钥绑定。 (#194)
- 支持全球插件。全球插件可以为NVDA增加新功能，适用于所有应用程序。 (#281)
- 在大写锁定打开时用Shift键键入字符时会听到一声小蜂鸣声。这可以通过取消选中键盘设置对话框中的相关新选项来关闭。 (#663)
- 当在Microsoft Word中按行移动时，现在宣布硬分页符。 (#758)
- 当按行移动时，现在可以在Microsoft Word中使用子弹和编号。 (#208)  
- 现在可以使用当前应用程序切换睡眠模式的命令（NVDA + shift + s）。睡眠模式（以前​​称为自发音模式）会禁用NVDA中的特定应用程序的所有屏幕读取功能。对于提供自己的语音和/或屏幕阅读功能的应用程序非常有用。再次按此命令可禁用睡眠模式。
- 一些额外的盲文显示键绑定已添加。有关详细信息，请参阅“用户指南”的“支持的盲文显示”部分 (#209)
- 为了方便第三方开发者，现在可以重新加载应用程序模块以及全局插件，而无需重新启动NVDA。使用工具 - >在NVDA菜单或NVDA +控制+ f3中重新加载插件。 (#544)
- NVDA现在可以记住您返回之前访问过的网页时的位置。这适用于浏览器或NVDA退出之前。 (#132)
- 现在可以使用Handy Tech盲文显示器，无需安装Handy Tech通用驱动程序。 (#854)
- 支持几种Baum，HumanWare和APH盲文显示器。 (#937)
- Media Player Classic家庭影院中的状态栏现在已被识别。
- 通过蓝牙连接时，现在可以使用Freedom Scientific Focus 40蓝色盲文显示器。 (#1345)


== 更改 ==
- 在某些通常不正确的情况下，位置信息不再被默认报告;例如大多数菜单，正在运行的应用程序栏，通知区域等。但是，可以通过对象显示设置对话框中的添加选项再次打开。
- 键盘帮助已重命名为输入帮助，以反映它处理来自键盘以外的输入的输入。
- 输入帮助不再通过语音和盲文报告脚本的代码位置，因为它对用户而言是神秘而无关紧要的。但是，现在它已记录给开发人员和高级用户。
- 当NVDA检测到它已冻结时，即使它将所有其他键传递给系统，它仍会继续截取NVDA修改键。这可以防止用户无意中切换大写锁定等，如果他们按NVDA修改键而不意识到NVDA已冻结。 (#939)
- 如果在使用传递下一个按键命令之后按下按键，则所有按键（包括按键重复）都会通过，直到最后一个按键被释放。
- 如果NVDA修改键快速连续两次按下，第二次按下，所有按键重复现在也会通过。
- 音量增大，减小和静音键现在在输入帮助中报告。如果用户不确定这些密钥是什么，这可能会有所帮助。
- “NVDA首选项”菜单中“查看光标”项目的热键已从r更改为c，以消除与“盲文设置”项目的冲突。


== Bug 修复 ==
- 添加新的语音词典条目时，对话框的标题现在是“添加词典条目”，而不是“编辑词典条目”。 (#924)
- 在语音词典对话框中，词典条目列表中正则表达式和区分大小写的列的内容现在以配置的NVDA语言呈现，而不是始终以英语显示。
- 在AIM中，现在在树形视图中宣布位置信息。
- 在“音色设置”对话框中的滑块上，向上箭头/向上翻页/主页现在增加设置，向下箭头/向下翻页/结束减小设置。以前发生了相反的情况，这不合逻辑，与合成器设置环不一致。 (#221)
- 在禁用屏幕布局的虚拟缓冲区中，不再显示一些无关的空白行。
- 如果NVDA修改键快速按下两次，但有一个插入键按下，NVDA修改键不会再通过第二次按键。
- 即使在标点符号被禁用的情况下，标点键现在也可以在输入帮助中使用。 (#977)
- 在“键盘设置”对话框中，键盘布局名称现在以配置的NVDA语言显示，而不是以英文显示。 (#558)
- 修复了Adobe Reader文档中某些项目呈现为空白的问题;例如Apple iPhone IOS 4.1用户指南目录中的链接。
- 如果在NVDA新安装后，但在安全屏幕出现之前立即使用，NVDA“常规设置”对话框中的“在登录和其他安全屏幕上使用当前保存的设置”按钮现在可以使用。以前，NVDA报告称复制成功，但实际上没有效果。 (#1194)
- 不能再同时打开两个NVDA设置对话框。这解决了一个打开的对话框依赖于另一个打开的对话框的问题;例如音色设置对话框打开时更改合成器。 (#603)
- 在启用了UAC的系统上，如果用户的帐户名称包含空格，则在UAC提示后NVDA的“常规设置”对话框中的“在登录和其他安全屏幕上使用当前保存的设置”按钮不会再失败。 (#918)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，NVDA现在使用该URL作为确定链接名称的最后手段，而不是显示空链接。 (#633)
- NVDA不再忽略AOL Instant Messenger 7菜单中的焦点。 (#655)
- 在Microsoft Word拼写检查对话框中宣布错误的正确标签（例如，不在字典，语法错误，标点符号中）。以前他们都被宣布为语法错误。 (#883)
- 在使用盲文显示器时在Microsoft Word中键入内容不应再导致乱码文本输入，并且在Word文档中按下盲文路由键时，罕见的冻结问题已得到修复。 （＃1212）但是，限制是在使用盲文显示器时，在Word 2003及更低版本中不能再读取阿拉伯语文本。 (#627)
- 在编辑栏中按下删除键时，盲文显示器上的文本/光标现在应该总是适当更新以反映更改。 (#947)
- NVDA可以正确反映多个选项卡打开时Gecko2文档（例如Firefox 4）中动态页面的更改。以前只有第一个选项卡中的更改才会反映出来。 （Mozilla错误610985）
- NVDA现在可以在Microsoft Word拼写检查对话框中正确地宣布对语法和标点错误的建议。 (#704)
- 在Internet Explorer和其他MSHTML控件中，NVDA不再将目标锚点作为其虚拟缓冲区中的空链接。相反，这些锚点应该是隐藏的。 (#1326)
- 标准组窗口周围和内部的对象导航不再被破坏和不对称。
- 在Firefox和其他基于Gecko的控件中，如果在外部文档之前完成加载，NVDA将不再卡在子帧中。
- 使用numpadDelete删除字符时，NVDA现在会适当地宣告下一个字符。 (#286)
- 在Windows XP登录屏幕上，当所选用户更改时，用户名将再次被报告。
- 修复了在启用报告行号的Windows命令控制台中阅读文本时的问题。
- 虚拟缓冲区的“元素列表”对话框现在可供有视力的用户使用。所有控件都可以在屏幕上看到。 (#1321)
- “语音词典”对话框中的条目列表现在对于有视力的用户更易读。该列表现在足够大，可以在屏幕上显示其所有列。 (#90)
- 在ALVA BC640 / BC680盲文显示器上，NVDA不再忽视在另一个键被释放后仍然按住的显示键。
- 在出现处理对话框之前，离开未加标签的文档选项后，Adobe Reader X不再崩溃。 (#1218)
- 当您恢复到保存的配置时，NVDA现在切换到适当的盲文显示驱动程序。 (#1346)
- Visual Studio 2008项目向导再次正确读取。 (#974)
- NVDA不再完全无法在其可执行文件名中包含非ASCII字符的应用程序中工作。 (#1352)
- 在启用自动换行功能的情况下逐行读取时，NVDA不会再读取当前行末尾的下一行的第一个字符。
- 在Visual Studio 2005/2008代码编辑器中，NVDA不再在每个键入的字符后读取整个文本。 (#975)
- 修正了当NVDA退出或显示改变时，某些盲文显示器没有正确清除的问题。
- 当NVDA开始时，初始焦点不再有时被朗读两次。 (#1359)


== 开发者更改 ==
- SCons is now used to prepare the source tree and create binary builds, portable archives, installers, etc. See readme.txt at the root of the source distribution for details.
- The key names used by NVDA (including key maps) have been made more friendly/logical; e.g. upArrow instead of extendedUp and numpadPageUp instead of prior. See the vkCodes module for a list.
- All input from the user is now represented by an inputCore.InputGesture instance. (#601)
 - Each source of input subclasses the base InputGesture class.
 - Key presses on the system keyboard are encompassed by the keyboardHandler.KeyboardInputGesture class.
 - Presses of buttons, wheels and other controls on a braille display are encompassed by subclasses of the braille.BrailleDisplayGesture class. These subclasses are provided by each braille display driver.
- Input gestures are bound to ScriptableObjects using the ScriptableObject.bindGesture() method on an instance or an __gestures dict on the class which maps gesture identifiers to script names. See baseObject.ScriptableObject for details.
- App modules no longer have key map files. All input gesture bindings must be done in the app module itself.
- All scripts now take an InputGesture instance instead of a key press.
 - KeyboardInputGestures can be sent on to the OS using the send() method of the gesture.
- To send an arbitrary key press, you must now create a KeyboardInputGesture using KeyboardInputGesture.fromName() and then use its send() method.
- Locales may now provide an input gesture map file to add new bindings or override existing bindings for scripts anywhere in NVDA. (#810)
 - Locale gesture maps should be placed in locale\LANG\gestures.ini, where LANG is the language code.
 - See inputCore.GlobalGestureMap for details of the file format.
- The new LiveText and Terminal NVDAObject behaviors facilitate automatic reporting of new text. See those classes in NVDAObjects.behaviors for details. (#936)
 - The NVDAObjects.window.DisplayModelLiveText overlay class can be used for objects which must retrieve text written to the display.
 - See the mirc and putty app modules for usage examples.
- There is no longer an _default app module. App modules should instead subclass appModuleHandler.AppModule (the base AppModule class).
- Support for global plugins which can globally bind scripts, handle NVDAObject events and choose NVDAObject overlay classes. (#281) See globalPluginHandler.GlobalPlugin for details.
- On SynthDriver objects, the available* attributes for string settings (e.g. availableVoices and availableVariants)  are now OrderedDicts keyed by ID instead of lists.
- synthDriverHandler.VoiceInfo now takes an optional language argument which specifies the language of the voice.
- SynthDriver objects now provide a language attribute which specifies the language of the current voice.
 - The base implementation uses the language specified on the VoiceInfo objects in availableVoices. This is suitable for most synthesisers which support one language per voice.
- Braille display drivers have been enhanced to allow buttons, wheels and other controls to be bound to NVDA scripts:
 - Drivers can provide a global input gesture map to add bindings for scripts anywhere in NVDA.
 - They can also provide their own scripts to perform display specific functions.
 - See braille.BrailleDisplayDriver for details and existing braille display drivers for examples.
- The 'selfVoicing' property on AppModule classes has now been renamed to 'sleepMode'.
- The app module events event_appLoseFocus and event_appGainFocus have now been renamed to event_appModule_loseFocus and event_appModule_gainFocus, respectivly, in order to make the naming convention consistent with app modules and tree interceptors.
- All braille display drivers should now use braille.BrailleDisplayDriver instead of braille.BrailleDisplayDriverWithCursor.
 - The cursor is now managed outside of the driver.
 - Existing drivers need only change their class statement accordingly and rename their _display method to display.


= 2010.2 =
Notable features of this release include greatly simplified object navigation; virtual buffers for Adobe Flash content; access to many previously inaccessible controls by retrieving text written to the screen; flat review of screen text; support for IBM Lotus Symphony documents; reporting of table row and column headers in Mozilla Firefox; and significantly improved user documentation.

== New Features ==
- Navigating through objects with the review cursor has been greatly simplified. The review cursor now excludes objects which aren't useful to the user; i.e. objects only used for layout purposes and unavailable objects.
- In applications using the Java Access Bridge (including OpenOffice.org), formatting can now be reported in text controls. (#358, #463)
- When moving the mouse over cells in Microsoft Excel, NVDA will appropriately announce them.
- In applications using the Java Access Bridge, the text of a dialog is now reported when the dialog appears. (#554)
- A virtualBuffer can now be used to navigate adobe Flash content. Object navigation and interacting with the controls directly (by turning on focus mode) is still supported. (#453)
- Editable text controls in the Eclipse IDE, including the code editor, are now accessible. You must be using Eclipse 3.6 or later. (#256, #641)
- NVDA can now retrieve most text written to the screen. (#40, #643)
 - This allows for reading of controls which do not expose information in more direct/reliable ways.
 - Controls made accessible by this feature include: some menu items which display icons (e.g. the Open With menu on files in Windows XP) (#151), editable text fields in Windows Live applications (#200), the errors list in Outlook Express (#582), the editable text control in TextPad (#605), lists in Eudora, many controls in Australian E-tax and the formula bar in Microsoft Excel.
- Support for the code editor in Microsoft Visual Studio 2005 and 2008. At least Visual Studio Standard is required; this does not work in the Express editions. (#457)
- Support for IBM Lotus Symphony documents.
- Early experimental support for Google Chrome. Please note that Chrome's screen reader support is far from complete and additional work may also be required in NVDA. You will need a recent development build of Chrome to try this.
- The state of toggle keys (caps lock, num lock and scroll lock) is now displayed in braille when they are pressed. (#620)
- Help balloons are now displayed in braille when they appear. (#652)
- Added a driver for the MDV Lilli braille display. (#241)
- When selecting an entire row or column in Microsoft Excel with the shortcut keys shift+space and control+space, the new selection is now reported. (#759)
- Table row and column headers can now be reported. This is configurable from the Document Formatting preferences dialog.
 - Currently, this is supported in documents in Mozilla applications such as Firefox (version 3.6.11 and later) and Thunderbird (version 3.1.5 and later). (#361)
- Introduced commands for flat review: (#58)
 - NVDA+numpad7  switches to flat review, placing the review cursor at the position of the current object, allowing you  to review the screen (or a document if within one) with the text review commands.
 - NVDA+numpad1 moves the review cursor into the object represented by the text at  the position of the review cursor, allowing you to navigate by object from that point.
- Current NVDA user settings can be  copied to be used on secure Windows screens such as the logon and UAC screens by pressing a button in the General Settings dialog. (#730)
- Support for Mozilla Firefox 4.
- Support for Microsoft Internet Explorer 9.


== Changes ==
- The sayAll by Navigator object (NVDA+numpadAdd), navigator object next in flow (NVDA+shift+numpad6) and navigator object previous in flow (NVDA+shift+numpad4) commands have been removed for the time being, due to bugginess and to free up the keys for other possible features.
- In the NVDA Synthesizer dialog, only the display name of the synthesizer is now listed. Previously, it was prefixed by the driver's name, which is only relevant internally.
- When in embedded applications or virtual buffers inside another virtualBuffer (e.g. Flash), you can now  press nvda+control+space to move out of the embedded application or virtual buffer to the containing document. Previously nvda+space  was used for this. Now nvda+space is specifically only for toggling brows/focus modes on virtualBuffers.
- If the speech viewer (enabled under the tools menu) is given the focus (e.g. it was clicked in) new text will not appear in the control until focus is moved away. This allows for selecting the text with greater ease (e.g. for copying).
- The Log Viewer and Python Console are maximised when activated.
- When focusing on a worksheet in Microsoft Excel and there is more than one cell selected, the selection range is announced, rather than just the active cell. (#763)
- Saving configuration and changing of particular sensitive options is now disabled when running on the logon, UAC and other secure Windows screens.
- Updated eSpeak speech synthesiser to 1.44.03.
- If NVDA is already running, activating the NVDA shortcut on the desktop (which includes pressing control+alt+n) will restart NVDA.
- Removed the report text under the mouse checkbox from the Mouse settings dialog and replaced it with an Enable mouse tracking checkbox, which better matches the toggle mouse tracking script (NVDA+m). 
- Updates to the laptop keyboard layout so that it includes all commands available in the desktop layout and works correctly on non-English keyboards. (#798, #800)
- Significant improvements and updates to the user documentation, including documentation of the laptop keyboard commands and synchronisation of the Keyboard Commands Quick Reference with the User Guide. (#455)
- Updated liblouis braille translator to 2.1.1. Notably, this fixes some issues related to Chinese braille as well as characters which are undefined in the translation table. (#484, #499)


== Bug Fixes ==
- In µTorrent, the focused item in the torrents list no longer reports repeatedly or steals focus when a menu is open.
- In µTorrent, the names of the files in the Torrent Contents list are now reported.
- In Mozilla applications, focus is now correctly detected when it lands on an empty table or tree.
- In Mozilla applications, "not checked" is now correctly reported for checkable controls such as checkable table cells. (#571)
- In Mozilla applications, the text of correctly implemented ARIA dialogs is no longer ignored and will now be reported when the dialog appears. (#630)
- in Internet Explorer and other MSHTML controls, the ARIA level attribute is now  honoured correctly.
- In Internet Explorer and other MSHTML controls, the ARIA role is now chosen over other type information to give a much more correct and predictable ARIA experience.
- Stopped a rare crash in Internet Explorer when navigating through frames or iFrames.
- In Microsoft Word documents, right-to-left lines (such as Arabic text) can be read again. (#627)
- Greatly reduced lag when large amounts of text are displayed in a Windows command console on 64-bit systems. (#622)
- If Skype is already started when NVDA starts, it is no longer necessary to restart Skype to enable accessibility. This may also be true for other applications which check the system screen reader flag.
- In Microsoft Office applications, NVDA no longer crashes when speak foreground (NVDA+b) is pressed or when navigating some objects on toolbars. (#616)
- Fixed incorrect speaking of numbers containing a 0 after a separator; e.g. 1,023. (#593)
- Adobe Acrobat Pro and Reader 9 no longer crash when closing a file or performing certain other tasks. (#613)
- The selection is now announced when control+a is pressed to select all text in some editable text controls such as in Microsoft Word. (#761)
- In Scintilla controls (e.g. Notepad++), text is no longer incorrectly selected when NVDA moves the caret such as during say all. (#746)
- It is again possible to review the contents of cells in Microsoft Excel with the review cursor.
- NVDA can again read by line in certain problematic textArea fields in Internet Explorer 8. (#467)
- Windows Live Messenger 2009 no longer exits immediately after it is started while NVDA is running. (#677)
- In web browsers, It is no longer necessary to press tab to interact with an embedded object (such as Flash content) after pressing enter on the embedded object or returning from another application. (#775)
- In Scintilla controls (e.g. Notepad++), the beginning of long lines is no longer truncated when it scrolls off the screen. Also, these long lines will be correctly displayed in braille when they are selected.
- In Loudtalks, it is now possible to access the contact list.
- The URL of the document and "MSAAHTML Registered Handler" are no longer sometimes spuriously reported in Internet Explorer and other MSHTML controls. (#811)
- In tree views in the Eclipse IDE, the previously focused item is no longer incorrectly announced when focus moves to a new item.
- NVDA now functions correctly on a system where the current working directory has been removed from the DLL search path (by setting the CWDIllegalInDllSearch registry entry to 0xFFFFFFFF). Note that this is not relevant to most users. (#907)
- When the table navigation commands are used outside of a table in Microsoft Word, "edge of table" is no longer spoken after "not in table". (#921)
- When the table navigation commands cannot move due to being at the edge of a table in Microsoft Word, "edge of table" is now spoken in the configured NVDA language rather than always in English. (#921)
- In Outlook Express, Windows Mail and Windows Live Mail, the state of the checkboxes in message rules lists is now reported. (#576)
- The description of message rules can now be read in Windows Live Mail 2010.


= 2010.1 =
This release focuses primarily on bug fixes and improvements to the user experience, including some significant stability fixes.

== New Features ==
- NVDA no longer fails to start on a system with no audio output devices. Obviously, a braille display or the Silence synthesiser in conjunction with the Speech Viewer will need to be used for output in this case. (#425)
- A report landmarks checkbox has been added to the Document Formatting settings dialog which allows you to configure whether NVDA should announce landmarks in web documents. For compatibility with the previous release, the option is on by default.
- If speak command keys is enabled, NVDA will now announce the names of multimedia keys (e.g. play, stop, home page, etc.) on many keyboards when they are pressed. (#472)
- NVDA now announces the word being deleted when pressing control+backspace in controls that support it. (#491)
- Arrow keys can now be used in the Web formator window to navigate and read the text. (#452)
- The entry list in the Microsoft Office Outlook address book is now supported.
- NVDA better supports embedded editable (design mode) documents in Internet Explorer. (#402)
- a new script (nvda+shift+numpadMinus) allows you to move the system focus to the current navigator object.
- New scripts to lock and unlock the left and right mouse buttons. Useful for performing drag and drop operations. shift+numpadDivide to lock/unlock the left, shift+numpadMultiply to lock/unlock the right.
- New braille translation tables: German 8 dot computer braille, German grade 2, Finnish 8 dot computer braille, Chinese (Hong Kong, Cantonese), Chinese (Taiwan, Manderin). (#344, #369, #415, #450)
- It is now possible to disable the creation of the desktop shortcut (and thus the shortcut key) when installing NVDA. (#518)
- NVDA can now use IAccessible2 when present in 64 bit applications. (#479)
- Improved support for live regions in Mozilla applications. (#246)
- The NVDA Controller Client API is now provided to allow applications to control NVDA; e.g. to speak text, silence speech, display a message in Braille, etc.
- Information and error messages are now read in the logon screen in Windows Vista and Windows 7. (#506)
- In Adobe Reader, PDF interactive forms developed with Adobe LiveCycle are now supported. (#475)
- In Miranda IM, NVDA now automatically reads incoming messages in chat windows if reporting of dynamic content changes is enabled. Also, commands have been added to report the three most recent messages (NVDA+control+number). (#546)
- Input text fields are now supported in Adobe Flash content. (#461)


== Changes ==
- The extremely verbose keyboard help message in the Windows 7 Start menu is no longer reported.
- The Display synth has now been replaced with a new Speech Viewer. To activate it, choose Speech Viewer from the Tools menu. The speech viewer can be used independently of what ever speech synthesizer you are using. (#44)
- Messages on the braille display will automatically be dismissed if the user presses a key that results in a change such as the focus moving. Previously the message would always stay around for its configured time.
- Setting whether braille should be tethered to the focus or the review cursor (NVDA+control+t) can now be also set from the braille settings dialog, and is also now saved in the user's configuration.
- Updated eSpeak speech synthesiser to 1.43.
- Updated liblouis braille translator to 1.8.0.
- In virtual buffers, the reporting of elements when moving by character or word has been greatly improved. Previously, a lot of irrelevant information was reported and the reporting was very different to that when moving by line. (#490)
- The Control key now simply stops speech like other keys, rather than pausing speech. To pause/resume speech, use the shift key.
- Table row and column counts are no longer announced when reporting focus changes, as this announcement is rather verbose and usually not useful.


== Bug Fixes ==
- NVDA no longer fails to start if UI Automation support appears to be available but fails to initialise for some reason. (#483)
- The entire contents of a table row is no longer sometimes reported when moving focus inside a cell  in Mozilla applications. (#482)
- NVDA no longer lags for a long time when expanding tree view items that contain a very large amount of sub-items.
- When listing SAPI 5 voices, NVDA now tries to detect buggy voices and excludes them from the Voice Settings dialog and synthesiser settings ring. Previously, when there was just one problematic voice, NVDA's SAPI 5 driver would sometimes fail to start.
- Virtual buffers now honour the report object shortcut keys setting found in the Object Presentation dialog. (#486)
- In virtual buffers, row/column coordinates are no longer incorrectly read for row and column headers when reporting of tables is disabled.
- In virtual buffers, row/column coordinates are now correctly read when you leave a table and then re-enter the same table cell without visiting another cell first; e.g. pressing upArrow then downArrow on the first cell of a table. (#378)
- Blank lines in Microsoft Word documents and  Microsoft HTML edit controls are now shown appropriately on braille displays. Previously NVDA was displaying the current sentence on the display, not the current line for these situations. (#420)
- Multiple security fixes when running NVDA at Windows logon and on other secure desktops. (#515)
- The cursor position (caret) is now correctly updated when performing a Say All that goes off the bottom of the screen, in standard Windows edit fields and Microsoft Word documents. (#418)
- In virtual buffers, text is no longer incorrectly included for images inside links and clickables that are marked as being irrelevant to screen readers. (#423)
- Fixes to the laptop keyboard layout. (#517)
- When Braille is tethered to review when you focus on a Dos console window, the review cursor can now properly navigate the text in the console.
- While working with TeamTalk3 or TeamTalk4 Classic, the VU meter progress bar in the main window is no longer announced as it updates. Also, special characters can be read properly in the incoming chat window.
- Items are no longer spoken twice in the Windows 7 Start Menu. (#474)
- Activating same-page links in Firefox 3.6 appropriately moves the cursor in the virtualBuffer to the correct place on the page.
- Fixed the issue where some text was not rendered in Adobe Reader in certain PDF documents.
- NVDA no longer incorrectly speaks certain numbers separated by a dash; e.g. 500-1000. (#547)
- In Windows XP, NVDA no longer causes Internet Explorer to freeze when toggling checkboxes in Windows Update. (#477)
- When using the in-built eSpeak synthesiser, simultaneous speech and beeps no longer intermittently cause freezes on some systems. This was most noticeable, for example, when copying large amounts of data in Windows Explorer.
- NVDA no longer announces that a Firefox document has become busy (e.g. due to an update or refresh) when that document is in the background. This also caused the status bar of the foreground application to be spuriously announced.
- When switching Windows keyboard layouts (with control+shift or alt+shift), the full name of the layout is reported in both speech and braille. Previously it was only reported in speech, and alternative layouts (e.g. Dvorak) were not reported at all.
- If reporting of tables is disabled, table information is no longer announced when the focus changes.
- Certain standard tree view controls in 64 bit applications (e.g. the Contents tree view in Microsoft HTML Help) are now accessible. (#473)
- Fixed some problems with logging of messages containing non-ASCII characters. This could cause spurious errors in some cases on non-English systems. (#581)
- The information in the About NVDA dialog now appears in the user's configured language instead of always appearing in English. (#586)
- Problems are no longer encountered when using the synthesiser settings ring after the voice is changed to one which has less settings than the previous voice.
- In Skype 4.2, contact names are no longer spoken twice in the contact list.
- Fixed some potentially major memory leaks in the GUI and in virtual buffers. (#590, #591)
- Work around a nasty bug in some SAPI 4 synthesisers which was causing frequent errors and crashes in NVDA. (#597)


= 2009.1 =
Major highlights of this release include support for 64 bit editions of Windows; greatly improved support for Microsoft Internet Explorer and Adobe Reader documents; support for Windows 7; reading of the Windows logon, control+alt+delete and User Account Control (UAC) screens; and the ability to interact with Adobe Flash and Sun Java content on web pages. There have also been several significant stability fixes and improvements to the general user experience.

== New Features ==
- Official support for 64 bit editions of Windows! (#309)
- Added a synthesizer driver for the Newfon synthesizer. Note that this requires a special version of Newfon. (#206)
- In virtual buffers, focus mode and browse mode can now be reported using sounds instead of speech. This is enabled by default. It can be configured from the Virtual buffers dialog. (#244)
- NVDA no longer cancels speech when volume control keys are pressed on the keyboard, allowing the user to change the volume and listen to actual results immediately. (#287)
- Completely rewritten support for Microsoft Internet Explorer and Adobe Reader documents. This support has been unified with the core support used for Mozilla Gecko, so features such as fast page rendering, extensive quick navigation, links list, text selection, auto focus mode and braille support are now available with these documents.
- Improved support for the date selection control found in the Windows Vista Date / Time properties dialog.
- improved support for the Modern XP/Vista start menu (specifically the all programs, and places menus). Appropriate level information is now announced.
- The amount of text that is announced when moving the mouse is now configurable from the Mouse settings dialog. A choice of paragraph, line, word or character can be made.
- announce spelling errors under the cursor in Microsoft Word.
- support for the Microsoft Word 2007 spell checker. Partial support may be available for prior Microsoft Word versions.
- Better support for Windows Live Mail. Plain text messages can now be read and both the plain text and HTML message composers are useable.
- In Windows Vista, if the user moves to the secure desktop (either because a UAC control dialog appeared, or because control+alt+delete was pressed), NVDA will announce the fact that the user is now on the secure desktop.
- NVDA can announce text under the mouse within dos console windows.
- Support for UI Automation via the UI Automation client API available in Windows 7, as well as fixes to improve the experience of NVDA in Windows 7.
- NVDA can be configured to start automatically after you log on to Windows. The option is in the General Settings dialog.
- NVDA can read secure Windows screens such as the Windows logon, control+alt+delete and User Account Control (UAC) screens in Windows XP and above. Reading of the Windows logon screen can be configured from the General Settings dialog. (#97)
- Added a driver for the Optelec ALVA BC6 series braille displays.
- When browsing web documents, you can now press n and shift+n to skip forward and backward past blocks of links, respectively.
- When browsing web documents, ARIA landmarks are now reported, and you can move forward and backward through them using d and shift+d, respectively. (#192)
- The Links List dialog available when browsing web documents has now become an Elements List dialog which can list links, headings and landmarks. Headings and landmarks are presented hierarchically. (#363)
- The new Elements List dialog contains a "Filter by" field which allows you to filter the list to contain only those items including the text that was typed. (#173)
- Portable versions of NVDA now look in the 'userConfig' directory inside the NVDA directory, for the user's configuration. Like for the installer version, this keeps the user's configuration separate from NVDA itself.
- Custom app modules, braille display drivers and synth drivers can now be stored in the user's configuration  directory. (#337)
- Virtual buffers are now rendered in the background, allowing the user to interact with the system to some extent during the rendering process. The user will be notified that the document is being rendered if it takes longer than a second.
- If NVDA detects that it has frozen for some reason, it will automatically pass all keystrokes through so that the user has a better chance of recovering the system.
- Support for ARIA drag and drop in Mozilla Gecko. (#239)
- The document title and current line or selection is now spoken when you move focus inside a virtual buffer. This makes the behaviour when moving focus into virtual buffers consistent with that for normal document objects. (#210)
- In virtual buffers, you can now interact with embedded objects (such as Adobe Flash and Sun Java content) by pressing enter on the object. If it is accessible, you can then tab around it like any other application. To return focus to the document, press NVDA+space. (#431)
- In virtual buffers, o and shift+o move to the next and previous embedded object, respectively.
- NVDA can now fully access applications running as administrator in Windows Vista and later. You must install an official release of NVDA for this to work. This does not work for portable versions and snapshots. (#397)


== Changes ==
- NVDA no longer announces "NVDA started" when it starts.
- The startup and exit sounds are now played using NVDA's configured audio output device instead of the Windows default audio output device. (#164)
- Progress bar reporting has been improved. Most notably you can now configure NVDA to announce via both speech and beeps at the same time.
- Some generic roles, such as pane, application and frame, are no longer reported on focus unless the control is unnamed.
- The review copy command (NVDA+f10) copies the text from the start marker up to and including the current review position, rather than excluding the current position. This allows the last character of a line to be copied, which was not previously possible. (#430)
- the navigatorObject_where script (ctrl+NVDA+numpad5) has been removed. This key combination did not work on some keyboards, nore was the script found to be that useful.
- the navigatorObject_currentDimentions script has been remapped to NVDA+numpadDelete. The old key combination did not work on some keyboards. This script also now reports the width and height of the object instead of the right/bottom coordinates.
- Improved performance (especially on netbooks) when many beeps occur in quick succession; e.g. fast mouse movement with audio coordinates enabled. (#396)
- The NVDA error sound is no longer played in release candidates and final releases. Note that errors are still logged.


== Bug Fixes ==
- When NVDA is run from an 8.3 dos path, but it is installed in the related long path (e.g. progra~1 verses program files) NVDA will correctly  identify that it is an installed copy and properly load the user's settings.
- speaking the title of the current foreground window with nvda+t now works correctly when in menus.
- braille no longer shows useless information in its focus context such as unlabeled panes.
- stop announcing some useless information when the focus changes such as root panes, layered panes and scroll panes in Java or Lotus applications.
- Make the  keyword search field in Windows Help (CHM) viewer much more usable. Due to buggyness in that control, the current keyword could not be read as it would be continually changing.
- report correct page numbers in Microsoft Word if the page numbering has been specifically offset in the document.
- Better support for edit fields found in Microsoft Word dialogs (e.g. the Font dialog). It is now possible  to navigate these controls with the arrow keys.
- better support for Dos consoles. specifically: NVDA can now read the content of particular consoles it always used to think were blank. Pressing control+break no longer terminates NVDA.
- On Windows Vista and above, the NVDA installer now starts NVDA with normal user privileges when requested to run NVDA on the finish screen.
- Backspace is now handled correctly when speaking typed words. (#306)
- Don't incorrectly report "Start menu" for certain context menus in Windows Explorer/the Windows shell. (#257)
- NVDA now correctly handles ARIA labels in Mozilla Gecko when there is no other useful content. (#156)
- NVDA no longer incorrectly enables focus mode automatically for editable text fields which update their value when the focus changes; e.g. http://tigerdirect.com/. (#220)
- NVDA will now attempt to recover from some situations which would previously cause it to freeze completely. It may take up to 10 seconds for NVDA to detect and recover from such a freeze.
- When the NVDA language is set to "User default", use the user's Windows  display language setting instead of the Windows locale setting. (#353)
- NVDA now recognises the existence of controls in AIM 7.
- The pass key through command no longer gets stuck if a key is held down. Previously, NVDA stopped accepting commands if this occurred and had to be restarted. (#413)
- The taskbar is no longer ignored when it receives focus, which often occurs when exiting an application. Previously, NVDA behaved as if the focus had not changed at all.
- When reading text fields in applications which use the Java Access Bridge (including OpenOffice.org), NVDA now functions correctly when reporting of line numbers is enabled.
- The review copy command (NVDA+f10) gracefully handles the case where it is used on a position before the start marker. Previously, this could cause problems such as crashes in Notepad++.
- A certain control character (0x1) no longer causes strange eSpeak behaviour (such as changes in volume and pitch) when it is encountered in text. (#437)
- The report text selection command (NVDA+shift+upArrow) now gracefully reports that there is no selection in objects which do not support text selection.
- Fixed the issue where pressing the enter key on certain Miranda-IM buttons or links was causing NVDA to freeze. (#440)
- The current line or selection is now properly respected when spelling or copying the current navigator object.
- Worked around a Windows bug which was causing garbage to be spoken after the name of link controls in Windows Explorer and Internet Explorer dialogs. (#451)
- Fixed a problem with the report date and time command (NVDA+f12). Previously, date reporting was truncated on some systems. (#471)
- Fixed the issue where the system screen reader flag was sometimes inappropriately cleared after interacting with secure Windows screens. This could cause problems in applications which check the screen reader flag, including Skype, Adobe Reader and Jart. (#462)
- In an Internet Explorer 6 combo box, the active item is now reported when it is changed. (#342)


= 0.6p3 =

== New Features ==
- As Microsoft Excel's formula bar is inaccessible to NVDA, provide an NVDA specific dialog box for editing when the user presses f2 on a cell.
- Support for formatting in IAccessible2 text controls, including Mozilla applications.
- Spelling errors can now be reported where possible. This is configurable from the Document Formatting preferences dialog.
- NVDA can be configured to beep for either all or only visible progress bars. Alternatively, it can be configured to speak progress bar values every 10%.
- Links can now be identified in richedit controls.
- The mouse can now be moved to the character under the review cursor in most editable text controls. Previously, the mouse could only be moved to the center of the control.
- In virtual buffers, the review cursor now reviews the text of the buffer, rather than just the internal text of the navigator object (which is often not useful to the user). This means that you can navigate the virtual buffer hierarchically using object navigation and the review cursor will move to that point in the buffer.
- Handle some additional states on Java controls.
- If the title command (NVDA+t) is pressed twice, it spells the title. If pressed thrice, it is copied to the clipboard.
- Keyboard help now reads the names of modifier keys when pressed alone.
- Key names announced by keyboard help are now translatable.
- Added support for the recognized text field in SiRecognizer. (#198)
- Support for braille displays!
- Added a command (NVDA+c) to report the text on the Windows clipboard. (#193)
- In virtualBuffers, if NVDA automatically switches to focus mode, you can use the escape key to switch back to browse mode. NVDA+space can still also be used.
- In virtual buffers, when the focus changes or the caret is moved, NVDA can automatically switch to focus mode or browse mode as appropriate for the control under the caret. This is configured from the Virtual Buffers dialog. (#157)
- Rewritten SAPI4 synthesizer driver which replaces the sapi4serotek and sapi4activeVoice drivers and should fix the problems encountered with these drivers.
- The NVDA application now includes a manifest, which means that it no longer runs in compatibility mode in Windows Vista.
- The configuration file and speech dictionaries are now saved in the user's application data directory if NVDA was installed using the installer. This is necessary for Windows Vista and also allows multiple users to have individual NVDA configurations.
- Added support for position information for IAccessible2 controls.
- Added the ability to copy text to the clipboard using the review cursor. NVDA+f9 sets the start marker to the current position of the review cursor. NVDA+f10 retrieves the text between the start marker and the current position of the review cursor and copies it to the clipboard. (#240)
- Added support for some edit controls in pinacle tv software.
- When announcing selected text for long selections (512 characters or more), NVDA now speaks the number of selected characters, rather than speaking the entire selection. (#249)


== Changes ==
- If the audio output device is set to use the Windows default device (Microsoft Sound Mapper), NVDA will now switch to the new default device for eSpeak and tones when the default device changes. For example, NVDA will switch to a USB audio device if it automatically becomes the default device when it is connected.
- Improve performance of eSpeak with some Windows Vista audio drivers.
- reporting of links, headings, tables, lists and block quotes can now be configured from the Document Formatting settings dialog. Previously to configure these settings for virtual buffers, the virtual buffer settings dialog would have been used. Now all documents share this configuration.
- Rate is now the default setting in the speech synthesizer settings ring.
- Improve the loading and unloading of appModules.
- The title command (NVDA+t) now only reports the title instead of the entire object. If the foreground object has no name, the application's process name is used.
- Instead of virtual buffer pass through on and off, NVDA now reports focus mode (pass through on) and browse mode (pass through off).
- Voices are now stored in the configuration file by ID instead of by index. This makes voice settings more reliable across systems and configuration changes. The voice setting will not be preserved in old configurations and an error may be logged the first time a synthesizer is used. (#19)
- The level of a tree view item is now announced first if it has changed from the previously focused item for all tree views. Previously, this was only occurring for native Windows (SysTreeView32) tree views.


== Bug Fixes ==
- The last chunk of audio is no longer cut off when using NVDA with eSpeak on a remote desktop server.
- Fix problems with saving speech dictionaries for certain voices.
- Eliminate the lag when moving by units other than character (word, line, etc.) towards the bottom of large plain text documents in Mozilla Gecko virtual buffers. (#155)
- If speak typed words is enabled, announce the word when enter is pressed.
- Fix some character set issues in richedit documents.
- The NVDA log viewer now uses richedit instead of just edit to display the log. This improves reading by word with NVDA.
- Fix some issues related to embedded objects in richedit controls.
- NVDA now reads page numbers in Microsoft Word. (#120)
- Fix the issue where tabbing to a checked checkbox in a Mozilla Gecko virtual buffer and pressing space would not announce that the checkbox was being unchecked.
- Correctly report partially checked checkboxes in Mozilla applications.
- If the text selection expands or shrinks in both directions, read the selection as one chunk instead of two.
- When reading with the mouse, text in Mozilla Gecko edit fields should now be read.
- Say all should no longer cause certain SAPI5 synthesizers to crash.
- Fixed an issue which meant that text selection changes were not being read in Windows standard edit controls before the first focus change after NVDA was started.
- Fix mouse tracking in Java objects. (#185)
- NVDA no longer reports Java tree view items with no children as being collapsed.
- Announce the object with focus when a Java window comes to the foreground. Previously, only the top-level Java object was announced.
- The eSpeak synthesizer driver no longer stops speaking completely after a single error.
- Fix the issue whereby updated voice parameters (rate, pitch, etc.) were not saved when the voice was changed from the synthesizer settings ring.
- Improved the speaking of typed characters and words.
- Some new text that was previously not spoken in text console applications (such as some text adventure games) is now spoken.
- NVDA now ignores focus changes in background windows. Previously, a background focus change could be treated as if the real focus changed.
- Improved the detection of the focus when leaving context menus. Previously, NVDA often didn't react at all when leaving a context menu.
- NVDA now announces when the context menu is activated in the Start menu.
- The classic Start menu is now announced as Start menu instead of Application menu.
- Improved the reading of alerts such as those encountered in Mozilla Firefox. The text should no longer be read multiple times and other extraneous information will no longer be read. (#248)
- The text of focusable, read-only edit fields will no longer be included when retrieving the text of dialogs. This fixes, for example, the automatic reading of the entire license agreement in installers.
- NVDA no longer announces the unselection of text when leaving some edit controls (example: Internet Explorer address bar, Thunderbird 3 email address fields).
- When opening plain text emails in Outlook Express and Windows Mail, focus is correctly placed in the message ready for the user to read it. Previously the user had to press tab or click on the message in order to use cursor keys to read it.
- Fixed several major issues with the "Speak command keys" functionality.
- NVDA can now read text past 65535 characters in standard edit controls (e.g. a large file in Notepad).
- Improved line reading in MSHTML edit fields (Outlook Express editable messages and Internet Explorer text input fields).
- NVDA no longer sometimes freezes completely when editing text in OpenOffice. (#148, #180)


= 0.6p2 =
- Improved the default ESpeak voice in NVDA
- Added a laptop keyboard layout. Keyboard layouts can be configured from NVDA's  Keyboard settings dialog. (#60)
- Support for grouping items in SysListView32 controls, mainly found in Windows Vista. (#27)
- Report the checked state of treeview items in SysTreeview32 controls.
- Added shortcut keys for many of NVDA's configuration dialogs
- Support for IAccessible2 enabled applications such as Mozilla Firefox when running NVDA from portable media, with out having to register any special Dll files
- Fix a crash with the virtualBuffers Links List in Gecko applications. (#48)
- NVDA should no longer crash Mozilla Gecko applications such as Firefox and Thunderbird if NVDA is running with higher privilages than the Mozilla Gecko application. E.g. NVDA is  running as Administrator.
- Speech dictionaries (previously User dictionaries) now can be either case sensitive or insensitive, and the patterns can optionally be regular expressions. (#39)
- Whether or not NVDA uses a 'screen layout' mode for virtual buffer documents can now be configured from a settings dialog
- No longer report anchor tags with no href in Gecko documents as links. (#47)
- The NVDA find command now remembers what you last searched for, across all applications. (#53)
- Fix issues where the checked state would not be announced for some checkboxes and radio buttons in virtualBuffers
- VirtualBuffer pass-through mode is now specific to each document, rather than NVDA globally. (#33)
- Fixed some sluggishness with focus changes and incorrect speech interuption which sometimes occured when using NVDA on a system that had been on standby or was rather slow
- Improve support for combo boxes in Mozilla Firefox. Specifically when arrowing around them text isn't repeated, and when jumping out of them, ancestor controls are not announced unnecessarily. Also virtualBuffer commands now work when focused on one  when you are in a virtualBuffer.
- Improve accuracy of finding the statusbar in many applications. (#8)
- Added the NVDA interactive Python console tool, to enable developers to look at and manipulate NVDA's internals as it is running
- sayAll, reportSelection and reportCurrentLine scripts now work properly when in virtualBuffer pass-through mode. (#52)
- The increase rate and decrease rate scripts have been removed. Users should use the synth settings ring scripts (control+nvda+arrows) or the Voice settings dialog
- Improve the range and scale of the progress bar beeps
- Added more quick keys to the new virtualBuffers:  l for list, i for list item, e for edit field, b for button, x for checkbox, r for radio button, g for graphic, q for blockquote, c for combo box, 1 through 6 for respective heading levels, s for separator, m for frame. (#67, #102, #108)
- Canceling the loading of a new document in Mozilla Firefox now allows the user to keep using the old document's virtualBuffer if the old document hadn't yet really been destroyed. (#63)
- Navigating by words in virtualBuffers is now more accurate as  words do not accidentally contain text from more than one field. (#70)
- Improved accuracy of focus tracking and focus updating when navigating in Mozilla Gecko virtualBuffers.
- Added a findPrevious script (shift+NVDA+f3) for use in new virtualBuffers
- Improved sluggishness in Mozilla Gecko dialogs (in Firefox and Thunderbird). (#66)
- Add the ability to view the current log file for NVDA. it can be found in the NVDA menu -> Tools
- Scripts such as say time and date now take the current language in to account; punctuation and ordering of words now reflects the language
- The language combo box in NVDA's General settings dialog now shows full language names for ease of use
- When reviewing text in the current navigator object, the text is always up to date if it changes dynamically. E.g. reviewing the text of a list item in Task Manager. (#15)
- When moving with the mouse, the current paragraph of text under the mouse is now announced, rather than either all the text in that particular object or just the current word. Also audio coordinates, and announcement of object roles is optional, they are turned off by default
- Support for reading text with the mouse in Microsoft Word
- Fixed bug where leaving the menu bar in applications such as Wordpad would cause text selection to not be announced anymore
- In Winamp, the title of the track is no longer announced again and again when switching tracks, or pausing/resuming/stopping playback.
- In Winamp,  Added ability to announce state of the shuffle and repeat controls as they are switched. Works in the main window and in the playlist editor
- Improve the ability to activate particular fields in Mozilla Gecko virtualBuffers. May include clickable graphics, links containing paragraphs, and other weird structures
- Fixed an initial lag when opening NVDA dialogs on some systems. (#65)
- Add specific support for the Total Commander application
- Fix bug in the sapi4serotek driver where the pitch could get locked at a particular value, i.e. stays high after reading a capital letter. (#89)
- Announce clickable text and other fields as clickable in Mozilla Gecko VirtualBuffers. e.g.  a field which has an onclick HTML attribute. (#91)
- When moving around Mozilla Gecko virtualBuffers, scroll the current field in to view -- useful so sighted peers have an idea of where the user is up to in the document. (#57)
- Add basic support for ARIA live region show events in IAccessible2 enabled applications. Useful in the Chatzilla IRC application, new messages will now be read automatically
- Some slight improvements to help use ARIA enabled web applications,  e.g. Google Docs
- Stop adding extra blank lines to text when copying it from a virtualBuffer
- Stop the space key from activating a link in the Links List. Now it can be used like other letters in order to  start typing the name of a particular link you wish to go to
- The moveMouseToNavigator script (NVDA+numpadSlash) now moves the mouse to the centre of the navigator object, rather than the top left
- Added scripts to click the left and right mouse buttons (numpadSlash and numpadStar respectively)
- Improve access to the Windows System Tray. Focus hopefully should no longer seem to keep jumping back to one particular item. Reminder: to get to the System Tray use the Windows command WindowsKey+b. (#10)
- Improve performance and stop announcing extra text when holding down a cursor key in an edit field and it hits the end
- Stop the ability for NVDA to make the user wait while particular messages are spoken. Fixes some crashes/freezes with particular speech synthesizers. (#117)
- Added support for the Audiologic Tts3 speech synthesizer, contribution by Gianluca Casalino. (#105)
- Possibly improve performance when navigating around documents in Microsoft Word
- Improved accuracy when reading text of alerts in Mozilla Gecko applications
- Stop possible crashes when trying to save configuration on non-English versions of Windows. (#114)
- Add an NVDA welcome dialog. This dialog is designed to provide essential information for new users and allows CapsLock to be configured as an NVDA modifier key. This dialog will be displayed when NVDA is started by default until it is disabled.
- Fix basic support for Adobe Reader so it is possible to read documents  in  versions 8 and 9
- Fix some errors that may have occured when holding down keys before NVDA is properly initialized
- If the user has configured NVDA to save configuration on exit, make sure the configuration is properly saved when shutting down or logging out of  Windows.
- Added an NVDA logo sound to the beginning of the installer, contributed by Victer Tsaran
- NVDA, both running in the installer and otherwise, should properly clean up its system tray icon when it exits
- Labels for standard controls in NVDA's dialogs (such as Ok and cancel buttons) should now show in the language NVDA is set to, rather than just staying in English.
- NVDA's icon should now be  used for  the NVDA shortcuts in the start menu and on the Desktop, rather than a default application icon.
- Read cells in MS Excel when moving with tab and shift+tab. (#146)
- Fix some double speaking in particular lists in Skype.
- Improved caret tracking in IAccessible2 and Java applications; e.g. in Open Office and Lotus Symphony, NVDA properly waits for the caret to move in documents rather than accidentally reading the wrong word or line at the end of some paragraphs. (#119)
- Support for AkelEdit controls found in Akelpad 4.0
- NVDA no longer locks up in Lotus Synphony when moving from the document to the menu bar.
- NVDA no longer freezes in the Windows XP Add/Remove programs applet when launching an uninstaller. (#30)
- NVDA no longer freezes when opening Spybot Search and Destroy


= 0.6p1 =

== Access to web content with new in-process virtualBuffers (so far for Mozilla Gecko applications including Firefox3 and Thunderbird3) ==
- Load times have been improved almost by a factor of thirty (you no longer have to wait at all for most web pages to load in to the buffer)
- Added a links list (NVDA+f7)
- Improved the find dialog (control+nvda+f) so that it performs a case-insencitive search, plus fixed a few focus issues with that dialog box.
- It is now possible to select and copy text in the new virtualBuffers
- By default the new virtualBuffers represent the document in a screen layout (links and controls are not on separate lines unless they really are visually). You can toggle this feature with NVDA+v.
- It is possible to move by paragraph with control+upArrow and control+downArrow.
- Improved support for dynamic content
- Improved over all accuracy of reading lines and fields when arrowing up and down.


== Internationalization ==
- It is now possible to type accented characters that rely on a "dead character", while NVDA is running.
- NVDA now announces when the keyboard layout is changed (when pressing alt+shift).
- The announce date and time feature now takes the system's current regional and language options in to account.
- added czech translation (by Tomas Valusek with help from Jaromir Vit)
- added vietnamese translation by Dang Hoai Phuc
- Added Africaans (af_ZA) translation, by Willem van der Walt.
- Added russian translation by Dmitry Kaslin 
- Added polish translation by DOROTA CZAJKA and friends.
- Added Japanese translation by Katsutoshi Tsuji.
- added Thai translation by Amorn Kiattikhunrat
- added croatian translation by Mario Percinic and Hrvoje Katic  
- Added galician translation by Juan C. buno 
- added ukrainian translation by Aleksey Sadovoy 


== Speech ==
- NVDA now comes packaged with eSpeak 1.33 which contains many improvements, among those are improved languages, named variants, ability to speak faster.
- The voice settings dialog now allows you to change the variant of a synthesizer if it supports one. Variant is usually a slight variation on the current voice. (eSpeak supports variants).
- Added the ability to change the inflection of a voice in the voice settings dialog if the current synthesizer supports this. (eSpeak supports inflection).
- Added the ability to turn off speaking of object position information(e.g. 1 of 4). This option can be found in the Object presentation settings dialog.
- NVDA can now beep when speaking a capital letter. This can be turned on and off with a check box in the voice settings dialog. Also added a raise pitch for capitals check box to configure whether NVDA should actually do its normal pitch raise for capitals. So now you can have either raise pitch, say cap, or beep, for capitals.
- Added the ability to pause speech in NVDA (like found in Voice Over for the Mac). When NVDA is speaking something, you can press the control or shift keys to silence speech just like normal, but if you then tap the shift key again (as long as you havn't pressed any other keys) speech will continue from exactly where it left off.
- Added a virtual synthDriver which outputs text to a window instead of speaking via a speech synthesiser. This should be more pleasant for sighted developers who are not used to speech synthesis but want to know what is spoken by NVDA. There are probably still some bugs, so feedback is most definitely welcome.
- NVDA no longer by default speaks punctuation, you can enable speaking of punctuation with NVDA+p.
- eSpeak by default now speaks quite a bit slower, which should make it easier for people who are using eSpeak for the first time, when installing or starting to use NVDA.
- Added user dictionaries to NVDA. These allow you to make NVDA speak certain text differently. There are three dictionaries: default, voice, and temporary. Entries you add to the default dictionary will happen all the time in NVDA. Voice dictionaries are specific to the current synthesizer and voice you currently have set. And temporary dictionary is  for those times you quickly want to set a rule while you are doing a particular task, but you don't want it to be perminant (it will disappear if you close NVDA). For now the rules are regular expressions, not just normal text.
- Synthesizers can now use any audio output device on your system, by setting the output device combo box in the Synthesizer dialog before selecting the synthesizer you want.


== Performance ==
- NVDA no longer takes up a huge amount of system memory , when editing messages in mshtml edit controls
- Improved performance when reviewing text inside many controls that do not actually have a real cursor. e.g. MSN Messenger history window, treeview items, listview items etc.
- Improved performance in rich edit documents.
- NVDA should no longer slowly creep up in system memory size for no reason
- Fixed bugs when  trying to focus on a dos console window more than three or so times. NVDA did have a tendency to completely crash.


== Key commands ==
- NVDA+shift+numpad6 and NVDA+shift+numpad4 allow you to navigate to the next or previous object in flow respectively. This means that you can navigate in an application by only using these two keys with out having to worry about going up by parent, or down to first child as you move around the object hyerarchy. For instance in a web browser such as firefox, you could navigate the document by object, by just using these two keys. If next in flow or previous in flow takes you up and out of an object, or down in to an object, ordered beeps indicate the direction.
- You can now configure voice settings with out opening the voice settings dialog, by using the Synth Settings Ring. The synth settings ring is a group of voice settings you can toggle through by pressing control+NVDA+right and control+NVDA+left. To change a setting use control+NVDA+up and control+NVDA+down.
- Added a command to report the current selection in edit fields (NVDA+shift+upArrow).
- Quite a few NVDA commands that speak text (such as report current line etc) now can spell the text if pressed twice quickly.
- the capslock, numpad insert and extended insert can all be used as the NVDA modifier key. Also if one of these keys is used, pressing the key twice with out pressing any other keys will send the key through to the operating system, just like you'd pressed the key with out NVDA running. To make one of these keys be the NVDA modifier key, check its checkbox in the Keyboard settings dialog (used to be called the keyboard echo dialog).


== Application support ==
- Improved support for Firefox3 and Thunderbird3 documents. Load times have been improved by almost a factor of thirty, a screen layout is used by default (press nvda+v to toggle between this and no screen layout), a links list (nvda+f7 has been added), the find dialog (control+nvda+f) is now case-insensitive, much better support for dynamic content, selecting and copying text is now possible.
- In the MSN Messenger and Windows Live Messenger history windows, it is now possible to select and copy text.
- Improved support for the audacity application
- Added support for a few edit/text controls in Skype
- Improved support for Miranda instant messenger application
- Fixed some focus issues when opening html and plain text messages in Outlook Express. 
- Outlook express newsgroup message fields are now labeled correctly
- NVDA can now read the addresses in the Outlook Express message fields (to/from/cc etc)
- NVDA should be now more accurate at announcing the next message in out look express when deleting a message from the message list.


== APIs and toolkits ==
- Improved object navigation for MSAA objects. If a window has a system menu, title bar, or scroll bars, you can now navigate to them.
- Added support for the IAccessible2 accessibility API. A part from the ability to announce more control types, this also allows NVDA to access the cursor in applications such as Firefox 3 and Thunderbird 3, allowing you to navigate, select or edit text.
- Added support for Scintilla edit controls (such controls can be found in Notepad++ or Tortoise SVN).
- Added support for Java applications (via the Java Access Bridge). This can provide basic support for Open Office (if Java is enabled), and any other stand-alone Java application. Note that java applets with in a web browser may not work yet.


== Mouse ==
- Improved support for reading what is under the mouse pointer as it moves. It is now much faster, and it also now has the ability in some controls such as standard edit fields, Java and IAccessible2 controls, to read the current word, not just the current object. This may be of some used to vision impared people who just want to read a specific bit of text with the mouse.
- Added a new config option, found in the mouse settings dialog. Play audio when mouse moves, when checked, plays a 40 ms beep each time the mouse moves, with its pitch (between 220 and 1760 hz) representing the y axis, and left/right volume, representing the x axis. This enables a blind person to get a rough idea of where the mouse is on the screen as its being moved. This feature also depends on reportObjectUnderMouse also being turned on. So this means that if you quickly need to disable both beeps and announcing of objects, then just press NVDA+m. The beeps are also louder or softer depending on how bright the screen is at that point.


== Object presentation and interaction ==
- Improved support for most common treeview controls. NVDA now tells you how many items are in the branch when you expand it. It also announces the level when moving in and out of branches. And, it announces the current item number and number of items, according to the current branch, not the entire treeview.
- Improved what is announced when focus changes as you move around applications or the operating system. Now instead of just hearing the control you land on, you hear information about any controls this control is positioned inside of. For instance if you tab and land on a button inside a groupbox, the groupbox will also get announced.
- NVDA now tries to speak the message inside many dialog boxes as they appear. This is accurate most of the time, though there are still many dialogs that arn't as good as they could be.
- Added a report object descriptions checkbox to the object presentation settings dialog. Power users may wish to sometimes uncheck this to stop NVDA announcing a lot of extra descriptions on particular controls,  such as in Java applications.
- NVDA automatically announces selected text in edit controls when focus moves to them. If there isn't any selected text, then it just announces the current line like usual.
- NVDA is a lot more careful now when it plays beeps to indicate progress bar changes in applications. It no longer goes crazy in Eclipse applications such as Lotus Notes/Symphony, and Accessibility Probe.


== User Interface ==
- Removed the NVDA interface window, and replaced it with a simple NVDA popup menu.
- NVDA's user interface settings dialog is now called General Settings. It also contains an extra setting: a combo box to set the log level, for what messages should go to NVDA's log file. Note that NVDA's log file is now called nvda.log not debug.log.
- Removed the report object group names checkBox from the object presentation settings dialog, reporting of group names now is handled differently.


= 0.5 =
- NVDA now has a built-in synthesizer called eSpeak, developed by Jonathan Duddington.It is very responsive and lite-weight, and has support for many different languages. Sapi synthesizers can still be used, but eSpeak will be used by default.
 - eSpeak does not depend on any special software to be installed, so it can be used with NVDA on any computer, on a USB thumb drive, or anywhere. 
 - For more info on eSpeak, or to find other versions, go to http://espeak.sourceforge.net/.
- Fix bug where the wrong character was being announced when pressing delete in Internet Explorer / Outlook Express editable panes.
- Added support for more edit fields in Skype.
- VirtualBuffers only get loaded when focus is on the window that needs to be loaded. This fixes some problems when the preview pane is turned on in Outlook Express.
- Added commandline arguments to NVDA:
 - -m, --minimal: do not play startup/exit sounds and do not show the interface on startup if set to do so.
 - -q, --quit: quit any other already running instance of NVDA and then exit
 - -s, --stderr-file fileName: specify where NVDA should place uncaught errors and exceptions
 - -d, --debug-file fileName: specify where NVDA should place debug messages
 - -c, --config-file: specify an alternative configuration file  
 - -h, -help: show a help message listing commandline arguments
- Fixed bug where punctuation symbols would not be translated to the appropriate language, when using a language other than english, and when speak typed characters was turned on.
- Added Slovak language files thanks to Peter Vagner 
- Added a Virtual Buffer settings dialog and a Document Formatting settings dialog, from Peter Vagner.
- Added French translation thanks to Michel Such 
- Added a script to toggle beeping of progress bars on and off (insert+u). Contributed by Peter Vagner.
- Made more messages in NVDA be translatable for other languages. This includes script descriptions when in keyboard help.
- Added a find dialog to the virtualBuffers (internet Explorer and Firefox). Pressing control+f when on a page brings up a dialog in which you can type some text to find. Pressing enter will then search for this text and place the virtualBuffer cursor on this line. Pressing f3 will also search for the next occurance of the text.
- When speak typed characters is turned on, more characters should be now spoken. Technically, now ascii characters from 32 to 255 can now be spoken.
- Renamed some control types for better readability. Editable text is now edit, outline is now tree view and push button is now button.
- When arrowing around list items in a list, or tree view items in a tree view, the control type (list item, tree view item) is no longer spoken, to speed up navigation.
- Has Popup (to indicate that a menu has a submenu) is now spoken as submenu.
- Where some language use control and alt (or altGR) to enter a special character, NVDA now will speak these characters when speak typed characters is on.
- Fixed some problems with reviewing static text controls.
- Added Translation for Traditional Chinese, thanks to Coscell Kao.
- Re-structured an important part of the NVDA code, which should now fix many issues with NVDA's user interface (including settings dialogs).
- Added Sapi4 support to NVDA. Currently there are two sapi4 drivers, one based on code contributed by Serotek Corporation, and one using the ActiveVoice.ActiveVoice com Interface. Both these drivers have issues, see which one works best for you.
- Now when trying to run a new copy of NVDA while an older copy is still running will cause the new copy to just exit. This fixes a major problem where running multiple copies of NVDA makes your system very unusable.
- Renamed the title of the NVDA user interface from NVDA Interface to NVDA. 
- Fixed a bug in Outlook Express where pressing backspace at the start of an editable message would cause an error.
- Added patch from Rui Batista that adds a script to report the current battery status on laptops (insert+shift+b).
- Added a synth driver called Silence. This is a synth driver that does not speak anything, allowing NVDA to stay completely silent at all times. Eventually this could be used along with Braille support, when we have it.
- Added capitalPitchChange setting for synthesizers thanks to J.J. Meddaugh
- Added patch from J.J. Meddaugh that makes the toggle report objects under mouse script more like the other toggle scripts (saying on/off rather than changing the whole statement).
- Added spanish translation (es) contributed by Juan C. buo.
- Added Hungarian language file from Tamas Gczy.
- Added Portuguese language file from Rui Batista.
- Changing the voice in the voice settings dialog now sets the rate, pitch and volume sliders to the new values according to the synthesizer, rather than forcing the synthesizer to be set to the old values. This fixes issues where a synth like eloquence or viavoice seems to speek at a much faster rate than all other synths.
- Fixed a bug where either speech would stop, or NVDA would entirely crash, when in a Dos console window.
- If support for a particular language exists, NVDA now automatically can show its interface and speak its messages in the language Windows is set to. A particular language can still be chosen manualy from the user interface settings dialog as well.
- Added script 'toggleReportDynamicContentChanges' (insert+5). This toggles whether new text, or other dynamic changes should be automatically announced. So far this only works in Dos Console Windows.
- Added script 'toggleCaretMovesReviewCursor' (insert+6). This toggles whether the review cursor should be automatically repositioned when the system caret moves. This is useful in Dos console windows when trying to read information as the screen is updating.
- Added script 'toggleFocusMovesNavigatorObject' (insert+7). This toggles whether the navigator object is repositioned on the object with focus as it changes.
- Added some documentation translated in to various languages. So far there is French, Spannish and Finish.
- Removed some developer documentation from the binary distribution of NVDA, it is only now in the source version.
- Fixed a possible bug in Windows Live Messanger and MSN Messenger where arrowing up and down the contact list would cause errors.
- New messages are now automatically spoken when in a conversation using Windows Live Messenger. (only works for English versions so far)
- The history window in a Windows Live Messenger conversation can now be read by using the arrow keys. (Only works for English versions so far) 
- Added script 'passNextKeyThrough' (insert+f2). Press this key, and then the next key pressed will be passed straight through to Windows. This is useful if you have to press a certain key in an application but NVDA uses that key for something else.
- NVDA no longer freezes up for more than a minute when opening very large documents in MS Word.
- Fixed a bug where moving out of a table in MS Word, and then moving back in, caused the current row/column numbers not to be spoken if moving back in to exactly the same cell.
- When starting NVDA with a synthesizer that doesn't exist, or is not working, the sapi5 synth will try and be loaded in stead, or if sapi5 isn't working, then speech will be set to silence.
- Increasing and decreasing rate scripts can no longer take the rate above 100 or below 0.
- If there is an error with a language when choosing it in the User Interface Settings dialog, a message box will alert the user to the fact.
- NVDA now asks if it should save configuration and restart if the user has just changed the language in the User Interface Settings Dialog. NVDA must be restarted for the language change to fully take effect.
- If a synthesizer can not be loaded, when choosing it from the synthesizer dialog, a message box alerts the user to the fact.
- When loading a synthesizer for the first time, NVDA lets the synthesizer choose the most suitable voice, rate and pitch parameters, rather than forcing it to defaults it thinks are ok. This fixes a problem where Eloquence and Viavoice sapi4 synths start speaking way too fast for the first time.

