NVDA NVDA_VERSION 用户指南


%!includeconf: ../userGuide.t2tconf
%kc:title: NVDA NVDA_VERSION 快捷键快速参考

= 目录 =[toc]
%%toc

+ 前言 +
无视觉桌面访问(NVDA)是一个免费且开放源码的微软 windows 操作系统的屏幕阅读器。
通过合成器语音或者盲文点字的反馈，盲人和低视力人群无需付出更多而能使用运行在 Windows 操作系统下运作的电脑。，
NVDA 在社会的捐助下由 [NV Access http://www.nvaccess.org/]进行开发。

++ 主要特色 ++
NVDA允许盲人和低视力人群访问 Windows 操作系统和与许多第三方程序进行交互。

主要特色包括：
- 支持包括 WEB 浏览器、电子邮件客户端、互联网聊天程序和 Office 套装在内的流行应用程序。
- 内建的语音合成气支持超过43种语言。
- 支持文档格式的朗读，如字体名称或大小、样式和拼写错误。
- 可自动朗读鼠标指向的文本，还包括用声音提示鼠标所在位置的选项。
- 支持许多点字显示器的实时刷新，支持带点字键盘的点字显示器的电脑盲文输入。
- 无需安装，可完全运行在U盘或者其他可携式媒体。
- 便于使用的语音安装程序。
- 已翻译为44种语言。
- 支持现代的Windows操作系统，包括32位和64位和其他衍生版本。
- 能够在 Windows 登录和其他安全界面运行
- 支持常见的辅助功能接口，如微软 Active Accessibility、Java Access Bridge、IAccessible2和UI automation(UI automation 仅支持 Windows 7和更高版本)
- 支持 Windows 命令提示符和控制台程序。
-

++ 国际化 ++
让世界上所有的人，不管使用何种语言，都可以无障碍的公平使用科技是非常重要的。
除了英语之外，NVDA 还被翻译成44种语言，包括：南非荷兰语，阿尔巴尼亚语，阿姆哈拉语，阿拉伯语，阿拉贡语，巴西葡萄牙语，保加利亚语，克罗地亚语，捷克语，丹麦语，荷兰语，波斯语，芬兰语，法语，加利西亚语，希腊语，格鲁吉亚语，德语，希伯来语，印地语，匈牙利语，冰岛语，爱尔兰语，意大利语，日语，韩语，尼泊尔语，挪威语，波兰语，葡萄牙语，罗马尼亚语，俄语，塞尔维亚语，斯洛伐克语，斯洛文尼亚语，西班牙语，瑞典语，泰米尔语，泰语，繁体和简体中文，土耳其语，乌克兰语和越南语。

++ 支持的语音合成器 ++
除了提供相应语言的消息和界面之外，只要它们有一个能讲述那一种语言的语音合成器，NVDA也可让用户阅读任何语言的内容，

NVDA捆绑的[eSpeak http://espeak.sourceforge.net/]是一个免费的且开放源码的多语种语音合成器。

有关于 NVDA 所支持的语音合成气的信息，可参看[支持的语音合成气 #SupportedSpeechSynths]章节。

++ 点显器支持 ++
对于拥有可刷新点显器的用户，NVDA 可将信息以点字形式输出到点显器上。
请参看[支持的点显器 #SupportedBrailleDisplays]章节，查看有关于点显器支持方面的信息。

NVDA 支持多种语言的简写或非简写点字和电脑点字。

++ 许可证与著作权 ++
 NVDA版权归 NVDA_COPYRIGHT_YEARS  NVDA 贡献者。

NVDA 受到《GNU 通用公共许可证条款(第二版)》的保护。 
只要将此公开许可协议随附于软件内，您可以自由的以任何形式分享或改变此软件，并将所有的源代码提供给需要的人
这个槼则适用于原始发布的软件或任何以此软件修改之后发布的作品，以及所有采用此软件内的程序码所生成的作品。 
更详细的信息，请[查看完整授权， http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.html]

+ 系统需求 +
- 操作系统： 所有32位或者64位的Windows XP、 Windows Vista、 Windows 7和 Windows 8(包括服务器系统)。
- 对于 Windows XP 32位版本，NVDA 要求 SP2 以上。
- 对于 Windows Server 2003的版本， NVDA 要求 SP1 或者更高。
- 内存：需要 256MB 或以上 
- 处理器速率：1.0Ghz或以上 
- 约需要50 MB 的磁盘空间。
-

+ 获取和设置 NVDA +
如果您还没有 NVDA 的副本， 请从[www.nvaccess.org NVDA_URL]下载它。

转到下载区域，您将发现一个可下载最近版本 NVDA 的链接。

运行您刚刚下载的文件，会打开一个临时的 NVDA 副本。
您将被询问，是否要安装 NVDA、创建便携版本或者仅仅是运行临时的版本。

如果您计划总是在此电脑上使用 NVDA，您将希望选择“安装NVDA”。
在安装 NVDA 的时候，将允许您使用如“在 Windows 登陆窗口启用 NVDA”，此选项将允许 NVDA 读取 Windows 的登陆界面或者其他安全界面(此特性无法在便携版和临时的 NVDA 副本中启用)，，或在开始菜单和桌面创建快捷方式的功能。
安装版本的 NVDA 允许您在任何时候创建便携版本。

如果您希望让 NVDA 运行在 U盘或其他可写媒体，您应该选择“创建便携版本”。
便携版本同样允许您在随后把它安装到电脑上。
或者，您如果只希望让 NVDA 运行在如 CD 等只读媒体，您只需要拷贝下载的文件即可。
在只读媒体上直接运行便携版本的 NVDA 在目前是不受支持的。

如只是希望试用，可使用临时的 nvda 副本选项，虽然以这种方式每次启动 NVDA 变得非常费时。

++ 便携副本和临时副本的限制 ++
除了不能在登录期间或其后自动启动，NVDA 的便携副本和临时副本还有以下限制：
- 无法与使用管理权限运行的应用程序进行交互，当然，除非 NVDA 本身也已经运行在管理员权限之下(不推荐)。
- 读取用户帐户控制(UAC)界面时，不能尝试启动具有管理权限的应用程序。
- Windows 8： 无法使用触摸屏进行输入。
- Windows 8：无法在 Windows 商店应用提供诸如浏览模式和朗读输入字符的特性。
-

++ 安装 NVDA ++
如果直接从下载的文件中安装 NVDA，请直接点击“安装”按钮。如果您已经关闭了此对话框或者希望从一个便携副本中进行安装，请在 NVDA 的“工具”菜单中选择“安装”菜单项目。
如果您已经关闭了该对话框，或者希望从便携版本的 NVDA 进行安装，请从 NVDA 的“工具”菜单选择“安装 NVDA”。

显示的“安装”对话框将确认您是否真的要安装 NVDA并提示您，先前版本的 NVDA 将被此安装程序升级。
点击“继续”按钮将开始 NVDA 的安装。
这里还有的一些附加选项，将在下面一一介绍。
一旦安装完成，将弹出消息提示您，安装已经成功。
再此点击“确定”按钮，将启动更新版本的 NVDA。

+++ 在WINDOWS 启动时运行 +++
此选项将允许您选择是否在 Windows 欢迎屏幕(即在输入密码以前)启动 NVDA。
此选项还可应用于 UAC 控制盒其他安全界面。

+++ 创建桌面快捷方式 (ctrl+alt+n) +++
此选项允许您选择，是否要在桌面上创建一个快捷方式来启动 NVDA。
如果创建，此快捷方式将富有CTRL加ALT加N的快捷键属性，您可以在任何时候使用此快捷键启动 ＮＶＤＡ。

+++ 复制便携版配置到当前用户账户 +++
此选项将允许您选择，是否允许为 ＮＶＤＡ 的安装副本从正在运行的 ＮＶＤＡ 的用户配置拷贝到当前登陆用户的用户配置。
此选项将不会为在此系统上的其他用户拷贝配置，也不应用于 Windows 欢迎屏幕和其他安全界面。
 此选项仅在从便携版本的 ＮＶＤＡ 进行安装时才可用，不会在从下载的安装程序包中安装时出现。

++ 创建一个便携副本 ++
如果希望从下载的安装包中直接创建便携版本，点击“创建便携版本”菜单项目便可简单完成。
如果您已经关闭了此对话框或者您正运行着安装版本的 ＮＶＤＡ，请在 ＮＶＤＡ 的“工具”菜单中选择“创建便携版本”菜单项目。

弹出的对话框允许您选择存放便携版本的位置。
您可在硬盘驱动器、Ｕ盘或其它便携式媒体的位置之间做出选择。
还有一个选项允许您选择，是否允许 ＮＶＤＡ 拷贝当前登录的用户的配置到新的便携版本。
 此选项仅当您从安装版本的 ＮＶＤＡ 中创建便携版本时才可用，并不适用于从下载的安装包创建时。
点击“继续”将创建便携副本。
当创建完成之后会显示一条消息通知您，创建已经成功。
点击“确定”关闭此对话框。

+ 开始使用 NVDA +

++ 运行 NVDA ++
如果您已安装了 NVDA 安装版，最简单的打开方式是按下快捷键 Ctrl+ Alt+N，或从“开始菜单”中的“程序中找到 NVDA。
您也可以在“开始菜单” 中的“运行”对话框中输入 NVDA，然后再按回车启动 NVDA。 

如果想启动便携版本的 NVDA，您可以找到您的便携版本所存放的文件夹，按“回车键”选择或双击 NVDA.EXE 即可。

当 NVDA 被启动时，您会听到一串上扬的声音，表示正在加载。
根据您的电脑的速度，或者如果您正在 U 盘或其他低速媒体设备运行，将需要更多的时间来启动。
 如果这样花费了额外的长时间，将提示“正在载入 NVDA，请稍后...”

如果您没有听到以上语音提示，而听到的是窗口错误的回应声，或是一串下沉的声音，那就代表 NVDA 加载没有成功，您需要重新查看可能引发的原因或向 NVDA 开发者报告此状况。
请打开 NVDA 网站获取与如何报告此问题相关的信息。

当您首次启动 NVDA 时会跳出一个“欢迎”对话框，其内包含了如何设置 NVDA 键及其菜单的基本信息。
请参见以下章节以进一步了解此主题。
此对话框包含三个复选框。
第一个允许您选择是否使用(大小写锁定)作为 NVDA 键。
第二个选择是否允许在 Windows 启动时启动 NVDA。
第三个允许您选择是否希望在每次启动 NVDA 时显示此对话框。

++ 关于 NVDA 的键盘命令 ++

+++ NVDA 键 +++
大多数 NVDA 键盘命令都是由一个被称之为 NVDA 组合键的特殊案件和另外的一个或者多个其他的按键组成。
 需要注意的是， NVDA 的台式机键盘方案中，进行文本浏览仅需使用小键盘的数字按键，但也有一些例外。

NVDA 可以设置使用数字键盘 插入见(numpad0)、主键盘上的插入见(Insert)、或者大小写锁定键(CapsLock)键作为 NVDA 组合键。 

默认状态下，将主键盘上的插入见及数字键盘上的0设为 NVDA 组合键。

假如你想使用 NVDA 键原有的功能(举例来说，如果你已设置大小写锁定键作为 NVDA 键，但又要用它来转换大写锁定状态)，你可以快速连按此键两次。 

+++ 键盘布局 +++
NVDA 目前共有两套键盘命令。
一套适用于台式机电脑，一套适用于笔记本电脑。
默认情况下， NVDA 使用的是台式机键盘布局，如果您希望切换到笔记本键盘布局，只需要在 NVDA 的“选项”菜单下打开“键盘设置”。

台式机布局着重使用小键盘(当数字键盘关闭时)。
虽然大多数笔记本电脑都没有实体的数字键盘，但有些电脑可以通过按下 FN 键加上键盘右边的字母和数字来模拟他们(例如789UIOJKL等等)。
如果您的电脑不能这样做，或者不允许关闭数字键盘，您或许会希望切换到笔记本键盘布局来代替。

++ NVDA 触摸手势 ++
如果您正在使用的设备带有触摸屏并且运行在 Windows8 或者更高版本的操作系统，您也可以通过触摸屏来控制 NVDA。
当 NVDA 正在运行时，所有触摸动作都将直接被其接管。
因而，所有在没有 NVDA 时通常能执行的动作都将失效。

+++ 浏览屏幕 +++
您能使用触摸屏执行的最普通的动作就是，朗读在屏幕任意一个点上的文本和控件。
想这样做，就把手指放到屏幕上的任意一个点上吧。
您也可以把手指保持在屏幕上移动以查看手指下所包含的控件或者文本。

+++ 触摸手势 +++
当 NVDA 命令在后面的用户指南被讲述的同时，将为每个动作列出其在触摸屏上的触摸手势。
下面是各种触摸手势执行的简单指导。

==== 点击 ====
用一个或者多个手指点击屏幕。

用一个手指轻击屏幕一次仅被简单的识别为一次点击。
双指同时轻击会被识别为两个手指点击，如此类推。

 如果相同的点击动作再次被执行一或者更多的次数，NVDA将把这个动作视为多重手势。
快速点击两次将被识别为一个双击动作。
点击三次将被识别为一个三击动作。
当然，多次点击的手势也会判断手指的数目。所以，像两指双击、四指单机这样的动作也是可以识别的。

==== 滑动 ====
用您的手指，快速滑动屏幕。

 根据方向的不同，有四种可能的滑动手势：向左滑动、向右滑动、向上滑动和向下滑动。

就像点击一样，超过一个的手指可以用来执行手势。
因而，如双指尚华和四指左滑这样的动作都是可行的。

+++ 触摸模式 +++
因为 NVDA 拥有的命令比可能的触摸手势还要多，NVDA 拥有专用的模式可以切换，每个模式各自拥有自己的一小套命令。
两个模式分别为对象模式和文本模式。
列举在这个文档中的、NVDA 所包含的命令使用的触摸手势到底属于哪个模式，将被罗列在其后的方括号内。
例如，向上滑动(文本模式)的意思是仅在当前处于文本模式时向上滑动才能执行此命令。
如果一个命令没有罗列它属于哪个模式，那它就可在任意模式下使用。

%kc:beginInclude
三个手指点击屏幕即可切换触摸模式。
%kc:endInclude

++ 输入帮助模式 ++
许多 NVDA 命令将被在剩余的文档中陆续提及，但更方便的快速了解所有不同命令的方法，就是打开“输入帮助”模式。

按下“NVDA加1”打开“输入帮助”模式。
再次按下“NVDA家1”即可关闭。
当处于输入帮助时，执行任何输入手势(例如按下一个键或者执行某个触摸手势)都将读出其动作和所包含的功能。
实际上，在帮助模式下，命令式不会被执行的。

++ NVDA 菜单 ++
NVDA 菜单允许您控制 NVDA 的设置、访问帮助、保存或者恢复您的配置、定义语音字典、访问额外的工具盒退出 NVDA。 

当 NVDA 正在运行时，如果您想访问 NVDA 菜单，在 Windows 的任何地方都可以通过在键盘上按下“NVDA加N”或者在触摸屏上执行双指双击的动作来进行。
您也可以通过 Windows 的托盘图标访问 NVDA 菜单。
您可以在右键单击系统托盘上的 NVDA 图标和按下“Windows键加B”访问系统托盘，然后按下光标找到 NVDA 图标后按下右 CTRL 附近的“应用建(Applications)”(大多数键盘)两种方式之间进行选择。
当菜单显示后，您可以使用方向键进行菜单导航，然后按“Enter”执行当前项目。

++ 基本的 NVDA 命令 ++
%kc:beginInclude
|| 名称 | 台式机键盘 | 笔记本键盘 | 触摸 | 描述 |
| 停止朗读 | Control | control | 双指点击 | 立即停止朗读 |
| 暂停朗读 | shift | shift | 无 | 立即暂停朗读，再次按下便会从刚刚停止的地方继续朗读(如果当前合成器可以支持暂停)。 |
| NVDA 菜单| NVDA+n | NVDA+n | 双指双击 | 弹出的 NVDA 菜单允许您访问“选项”、“工具”和“帮助”等等 |
|切换声音模式 | NVDA+s | NVDA+s | 无 | 把声音模式在朗读、提示音和关闭之间切换。 |
| 切换输入帮助模式 | NVDA+1 | NVDA+1 | 无 | 在此模式之下，按下任何按键都将读出其名称和与其关联的 NVDA 命令。 |
| 退出 NVDA | NVDA+q | NVDA+q | 无 | 退出 NVDA |
| 跳过下一个按键 | NVDA+f2 | NVDA+f2 | 无 | 告诉 NVDA：忽略下一次按键动作，使其能直接发送到激活的程序，即使它是 NVDA 的命令也不例外。 |
| 切换程序睡眠模式的开关 | NVDA+shift+s | NVDA+shift+z | 无 | 为当前程序停用所有的 NVDA 命令、语音和点字输出。此功能通常用于那些自身就提供语音或者屏幕阅读特性的程序。再次按下此快捷键将停用自身的声音模式。 |
%kc:endInclude

++ 朗读系统信息 ++
%kc:beginInclude
|| 名称 | 按键 | 描述 |
|朗读日期/时间 | NVDA+f12 | 按键一次读出当前时间，连按两次读出日期。 |
| 朗读电池状态 | NVDA+shift+b | 朗读电池状态，包括是否正在使用电源盒充电的百分比。 |
| 朗读剪贴板文本 | NVDA+c | 朗读剪贴板内的任何字符。 |
%kc:endInclude

+ 使用 NVDA 导航 +
NVDA 允许您使用多种方式在系统中进行浏览和导航，包括传统交互模式和 浏览光标(Review)。

++ 对象 ++[Objects]
每个应用程序和操作系统本身都由许多对象组成。
 一个对象就是一个单独的项目，例如一段文本、按钮、复选框、滑块、列表和可编辑文本框。

++ 使用系统焦点导航 ++[SystemFocus]
 系统焦点，或被简单的称之为焦点，就是一个用来接收键盘输入的[对象 #Objects]。
例如，如果您正在一个可编辑文本框中进行输入，那么，这个可编辑文本框就有了焦点。

使用 NVDA 在 Windows 系统中进行导航的最常用的方法是使用标准的系统键盘命令简单的移动系统焦点 ，如使用 Tab 或者 Shift加Tab 在控件之间前后移动、按下 Alt 转到菜单栏后使用方向键在菜单中导航和使用 Alt加Tab 在正在运行的程序之间切换。
当您这样操作时，NVDA 通常会读出焦点所在对象的相关信息，包括：名称、格式、数值、状态、描述、快捷键及位置信息等等。 

下面是一些在移动系统焦点时很有用的键盘命令：
%kc:beginInclude
|| 名称 | 台式机键盘 | 笔记本键盘 | 描述 |
| 朗读当前焦点 | NVDA+tab | NVDA+tab | 朗读当前焦点所在的对象和控件，连按两次将拼读此信息。 |
| 朗读标题 | NVDA+t | NVDA+t | 朗读当前激活窗口的标题，连按两次将拼读此信息，连按三次将复制此信息到剪贴板。 |
| 朗读激活的窗口 | NVDA+b | NVDA+b | 朗读当前窗口的所有控件(常用在对话框中)。 |
| 朗读状态栏 | NVDA+end | NVDA+shift+end | 朗读状态栏(如果 NVDA 能找到)并将浏览光标移动到其位置之上。 |
%kc:endInclude

++ Navigating with the System Caret ++[SystemCaret]
When an [object #Objects] that allows navigation and/or editing of text is [focused #SystemFocus], you can move through the text using the system caret, also known as the edit cursor.

When the focus is on an object that has the system caret, you can use the arrow keys, page up, page down, home, end, etc. to move through the text.
You can also change the text if the control supports editing.
NVDA will announce as you move by character, word and line, and will also announce as you select and unselect text.

NVDA provides the following key commands in relation to the system caret:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Description |
| Say all | NVDA+downArrow | NVDA+a | Starts reading from the current position of the system caret, moving it along as it goes |
| Read current line | NVDA+upArrow | NVDA+l | Reads the line where the system caret is currently situated. Pressing twice spells the line. |
| Read current text selection | NVDA+Shift+upArrow | NVDA+shift+s | Reads any currently selected text |


When within a table, the following key commands are also available:
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Move to previous column | control+alt+leftArrow | Moves the system caret to the previous column (staying in the same row) |
| Move to next column | control+alt+rightArrow | Moves the system caret to the next column (staying in the same row) |
| Move to previous row | control+alt+upArrow | Moves the system caret to the previous row (staying in the same column) |
| Move to next row | control+alt+downArrow | Moves the system caret to the next row (staying in the same column) |
%kc:endInclude

++ Object Navigation ++
Most of the time, you will work with applications using commands which move the [focus #SystemFocus] and the [caret #SystemCaret].
However, sometimes, you may wish to explore the current application or the Operating System without moving the focus or caret.
You may also wish to work with [objects #Objects] that cannot be accessed normally using the keyboard.
In these cases, you can use object navigation.

Object navigation allows you to move between and obtain information about individual [objects #Objects].
When you move to an object, NVDA will report it similarly to the way it reports the system focus.
For a way to review all text as it appears on the screen, you can instead use [screen review #ScreenReview].

Rather than having to move back and forth between every single object on the system, the objects are organized hierarchically.
This means that some objects contain other objects and you must move inside them to access the objects they contain.
For example, a list contains list items, so you must move inside the list in order to access its items.
If you have moved to a list item, moving next and previous will take you to other list items in the same list.
Moving to a list item's containing object will take you back to the list.
You can then move past the list if you wish to access other objects.
Similarly, a toolbar contains controls, so you must move inside the toolbar to access the controls in the toolbar.

The object currently being reviewed is called the navigator object.
Once you navigate to an object, you can review its content using the [text review commands #ReviewingText] while in [Object review mode #ObjectReview].
By default, the navigator object moves along with the System focus, though this behaviour can be toggled on and off.

Note that braille follows the [focus #SystemFocus] and [caret #SystemCaret] by default, rather than object navigation and text review.
If you want it to follow object navigation and text review instead, you need to [configure braille to be tethered to #BrailleTether] review.

To navigate by object, use the following commands:

%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Touch | Description |
| Report current object | NVDA+numpad5 | NVDA+shift+o | none | Reports the current navigator object. Pressing twice spells the information, and pressing 3 times copies this object's name and value to the clipboard. |
| Move to containing object | NVDA+numpad8 | NVDA+shift+upArrow | flick up (object mode) | Moves to the object containing the current navigator object |
| Move to previous object | NVDA+numpad4 | NVDA+shift+leftArrow | flick left (object mode) | Moves to the object before the current navigator object |
| Move to next object | NVDA+numpad6 | NVDA+shift+rightArrow | flick right (object mode) | Moves to the object after the current navigator object |
| Move to first contained object | NVDA+numpad2 | NVDA+shift+downArrow | flick down (object mode) | Moves to the first object contained by the current navigator object |
| Move to focus object | NVDA+numpadMinus | NVDA+backspace | none | Moves to the object that currently has the system focus, and also places the review cursor at the position of the System caret, if it is showing |
| Activate current navigator object | NVDA+numpadEnter | NVDA+enter | double tap | Activates the current navigator object (similar to clicking with the mouse or pressing space when it has the system focus) |
| Move System focus or caret to current review position | NVDA+shift+numpadMinus | NVDA+shift+backspace | none | pressed once Moves the System focus to the current navigator object, pressed twice moves the system caret to the position of the review cursor |
| Report navigator object dimensions | NVDA+numpadDelete | NVDA+delete | none | Reports the current navigator object's dimensions on screen in per centages (including distance from left and top of screen, and its width and height) |
%kc:endInclude

Note: numpad keys require numlock key to be turned off to work properly.

++ Reviewing Text ++[ReviewingText]
NVDA allows you to read the contents of the [screen #ScreenReview], current [document #DocumentReview] or current [object #ObjectReview] by character, word or line.
This is mostly useful in places (including Windows command consoles) where there is no [system caret #SystemCaret].
For example, you might use it to review the text of a long information message in a dialog.

When moving the review cursor, the System caret does not follow along, so you can review text without losing your editing position.
However, by default, when the System caret moves, the review cursor follows along.
This can be toggled on and off.

Note that braille follows the [focus #SystemFocus] and [caret #SystemCaret] by default, rather than object navigation and text review.
If you want it to follow object navigation and text review instead, you need to [configure braille to be tethered to #BrailleTether] review.

The following commands are available for reviewing text:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Touch | Description |
| Move to top line in review | shift+numpad7 | NVDA+control+home | none | Moves the review cursor to the top line of the text |
| Move to previous line in review | numpad7 | NVDA+upArrow | flick up (text mode) | Moves the review cursor to the previous line of text |
| Report current line in review | numpad8 | NVDA+shift+. | none | Announces the current line of text where the review cursor is positioned. Pressing twice spells the line. Pressing three times spells the line using character descriptions. |
| Move to next line in review | numpad9 | NVDA+downArrow | flick down (text mode) | Move the review cursor to the next line of text |
| Move to bottom line in review | shift+numpad9 | NVDA+control+end | none | Moves the review cursor to the bottom line of text |
| Move to previous word in review | numpad4 | NVDA+control+leftArrow | 2-finger flick left (text mode) | Moves the review cursor to the previous word in the text |
| Report current word in review | numpad5 | NVDA+control+. | none | Announces the current word in the text where the review cursor is positioned. Pressing twice spells the word. Pressing three times spells the word using character descriptions. |
| Move to next word in review | numpad6 | NVDA+control+rightArrow | 2-finger flick right (text mode) | Move the review cursor to the next word in the text |
| Move to start of line in review | shift+numpad1 | NVDA+home | none | Moves the review cursor to the start of the current line in the text |
| Move to previous character in review | numpad1 | NVDA+leftArrow | flick left (text mode) | Moves the review cursor to the previous character on the current line in the text |
| Report current character in review | numpad2 | NVDA+. | none | Announces the current character on the line of text where the review cursor is positioned. Pressing twice reports a description or example of that character. Pressing three times reports the numeric value of the character in decimal and hexadecimal. |
| Move to next character in review | numpad3 | NVDA+rightArrow | flick right (text mode) | Move the review cursor to the next character on the current line of text |
| Move to end of line in review | shift+numpad3 | NVDA+end | none | Moves the review cursor to the end of the current line of text |
| Say all with review | numpadPlus | NVDA+shift+a | 3-finger flick down (text mode) | Reads from the current position of the review cursor, moving it as it goes |
| Copy from review cursor | NVDA+f9 | NVDA+f9 | none | starts copying text from the current position of the review cursor. The actual copy is not performed until you tell NVDA where to copy to |
| Copy to review cursor | NVDA+f10 | NVDA+f10 | none | Copies from the position of the review cursor currently set with Copy from review cursor, to the review cursor's current position. After pressing this key, the text will be copied to the Windows clipboard |
| Report text formatting | NVDA+f | NVDA+f | none | Reports the formatting of the text where the review cursor is currently situated |
%kc:endInclude

Note: numpad keys require numlock key to be turned off to work properly.

A good way to remember the basic text review commands  when using the Desktop layout  is to think of them as being in a grid of three by three, with top to bottom being line, word and character and left to right being previous, current and next.
The layout is illustrated as follows:
| Previous line | Current line | Next line |
| Previous word | Current word | Next word |
| Previous character | Current character | Next character |

++ Review Modes ++[ReviewModes]
NVDA's [text review commands #ReviewingText] can review content within the current navigator object, current document or screen, depending on the review mode selected.
Review modes are a replacement for the older Flat Review concept found in NVDA.

The following commands switch between review modes:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Touch | Description |
| switch to next review mode | NVDA+numpad7 | NVDA+pageUp | 2-finger flick up | switches to the next available review mode |
| switch to previous review mode | NVDA+numpad1 | NVDA+pageDown | 2-finger flick down | switches to the previous available review mode |
%kc:endInclude

+++ Object Review +++[ObjectReview]
While in object review mode, you are able to only review the content of the current [navigator object #ObjectNavigation].
For objects such as editable text fields or other basic text controls, this will generally be the text content.
For other objects, this may be the name and/or value.

+++ Document Review +++[DocumentReview]
When the [navigator object #ObjectNavigation] is within a browse mode document (e.g. web page) or other complex document (e.g. a Lotus Symphony document), it is possible to switch to the document review mode.
The document review mode allows you to review the text of the entire document.

When switching from object review to document review, the review cursor is placed in the document at the position of the navigator object.
When moving around the document with review commands, the navigator object is automatically updated to the object found at the current review cursor position.

Note that NVDA will switch to document review from object review automatically when moving around browse mode documents.

+++ Screen Review +++[ScreenReview]
The screen review mode allows you to review the text of the screen as it appears visually within the current application.
This is similar to the screen review or mouse cursor functionality in many other Windows screen readers.

When switching to screen review mode, the review cursor is placed at the screen position of the current [navigator object #ObjectNavigation].
When moving around the screen with review commands, the navigator object is automatically updated to the object found at the screen position of the review cursor.

Note that in some newer applications, NVDA may not see some or all text displayed on the screen due to the use of newer screen drawing technologies which are impossible to support at this time.

++ Navigating with the Mouse ++
When you move the Mouse, NVDA by default reports the text that is directly under the mouse pointer as the pointer moves over it.
Where supported, NVDA will read the surrounding paragraph of text, though some controls may only read by line.

NVDA can be configured to also announce the type of [object #Objects] under the mouse as it moves (e.g. list, button, etc.).
This may be useful for totally blind users, as sometimes, the text isn't enough.

NVDA provides a way for users to understand where the mouse is located relative to the dimensions of the screen by playing the current mouse coordinates as audio beeps.
The higher the mouse is on the screen, the higher the pitch of the beeps.
The further left or right the mouse is located on the screen, the further left or right the sound will be played (assuming the user has stereo speakers or headphones).

These extra mouse features are not turned on by default in NVDA.
If you wish to take advantage of them, you can configure them from the [Mouse settings #MouseSettings] dialog, found in the NVDA Preferences menu.

Although a physical mouse or trackpad should be used to navigate with the mouse, NVDA has a few key commands related to the mouse:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Description |
| Left mouse button click | numpadDivide | NVDA+[ | clicks the left mouse button once. The common double click can be performed by pressing this key twice in quick succession |
| Left mouse button lock | shift+numpadDivide | NVDA+control+[ | Locks the left mouse button down. Press again to release it. To drag the mouse, press this key to lock the left button down and then move the mouse either physically or use one of the other mouse routing commands |
| Right mouse click | numpadMultiply | NVDA+] | Clicks the right mouse button once. |
| Right mouse button lock | shift+numpadMultiply | NVDA+control+] | Locks the right mouse button down. Press again to release it. To drag the mouse, press this key to lock the right button down and then move the mouse either physically or use one of the other mouse routing commands |
| Move mouse to current navigator object | NVDA+numpadDivide | NVDA+shift+m | Moves the mouse to the location of the current navigator object and review cursor |
| Navigate to the object under the mouse | NVDA+numpadMultiply | NVDA+shift+n | Set the navigator object to the object located at the position of the mouse |
%kc:endInclude

+ Browse Mode +
Complex read-only documents such as web pages are browsed in NVDA using browse mode.
This includes documents in Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Adobe Reader and Adobe Flash.

In browse mode, the content of the document is made available in a flat representation that can be navigated with the cursor keys as if it were a normal text document.
All of NVDA's [system caret #SystemCaret] key commands will work in this mode; e.g. say all, report formatting, table navigation commands, etc.
Information such as whether text is a link, heading, etc. is reported along with the text as you move.

Sometimes, you will need to interact directly with controls in these documents.
For example, you will need to do this for editable text fields and lists so that you can type characters and use the cursor keys to work with the control.
You do this by switching to focus mode, where almost all keys are passed to the control.
When in Browse mode, by default, NVDA will automatically switch to focus mode if you tab to or click on a particular control that requires it.
Conversely, tabbing to or clicking on a control that does not require focus mode will switch back to browse mode.
You can also press enter or space to switch to focus mode on controls that require it.
Pressing escape will switch back to browse mode.
In addition, you can manually force focus mode, after which it will remain in effect until you choose to disable it.

%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Toggle browse/focus modes | NVDA+space | Toggles between focus mode and browse mode |
| Exit focus mode | escape | switches back to browse mode if focus mode was previously switched to automatically |
| Refresh browse mode document | NVDA+f5 | Reloads the current document content (useful if certain content seems to be missing from the document) |
| Find | NVDA+control+f | Pops up a dialog in which you can type some text to find in the current document |
| Find next | NVDA+f3 | Finds the next occurrence of the text in the document that you previously searched for |
| Find previous | NVDA+shift+f3 | Finds the previous occurrence of the text in the document you previously searched for |
| open long description | NVDA+d | Opens a new window containing a long description for the element you are on if it has one. | 
%kc:endInclude


++ Single Letter Navigation ++
While in browse mode, For quicker navigation, NVDA also provides single character keys to jump to certain fields in the document.

%kc:beginInclude
The following keys by themselves jump to the next available element, while adding the shift key causes them to jump to the previous element:
- h: heading
- l: list
- i: list item
- t: table
- k: link
- n: nonLinked text
- f: form field
- u: unvisited link
- v: visited link
- e: edit field
- b: button
- x: checkbox
- c: combo box
- r: radio button
- q: block quote
- s: separator
- m: frame
- g: graphic
- d: landmark
- o: embedded object
- 1 to 6: headings at levels 1 to 6 respectively
-
To move to the beginning or end of containing elements such as lists and tables:
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Move to start of container | shift+comma | Moves to the start of the container (list, table, etc.) where the caret is positioned |
| Move past end of container | comma | Moves past the end of the container (list, table, etc.) where the caret is positioned |
%kc:endInclude

++ The Elements List ++
The elements list provides access to a list of either links, headings or landmarks in the document.
Radio buttons allow you to switch between these three types of information.
An edit field is also provided in the dialog which allows you to filter the list to help you search for a particular item on the page.
Once you have chosen an item, you can use the provided buttons in the dialog to move to or activate that item.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Browse mode elements list | NVDA+f7 | Brings up the Elements list which contains links, headings and landmarks from the current document |
%kc:endInclude

++ Embedded Objects ++
Pages can include rich content using technologies such as Adobe Flash and Sun Java, as well as applications and dialogs.
Where these are encountered in browse mode, NVDA will report "embedded object", "application" or "dialog", respectively.
You can press enter on these objects to interact with them.
If it is accessible, you can then tab around it and interact with it like any other application.
A key command is provided to return to the original page containing the embedded object:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Move to containing browse mode document | NVDA+control+space | Moves the focus out of the current embedded object and into the document that contains it |
%kc:endInclude

+ Application Specific NVDA Commands +
NVDA provides its own extra commands for some applications to make certain tasks easier or to provide access to functionality which is not otherwise accessible to screen reader users.

++ Microsoft Excel ++
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Set column headers | NVDA+shift+c | Pressing this once tells NVDA this is the row that contains column headers, which should be automatically announced when moving between columns below this row. Pressing twice will clear the setting. | 
| Set row headers | NVDA+shift+r | Pressing this once tells NVDA this is the column that contains row headers, which should be automatically announced when moving between rows after  this column. Pressing twice will clear the setting. | 
%kc:endInclude

++ Microsoft PowerPoint ++
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Toggle speaker notes reading | control+shift+s | When in a running slide show, this command will toggle between the speaker notes for the slide and the content for the slide. This only affects what NVDA reads, not what is displayed on screen. | 
%kc:endInclude

++ foobar2000 ++
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Report remaining time | control+shift+r | Reports the remaining time of the currently playing track, if any. |
%kc:endInclude

Note: The report remaining time shortcut works only with the default formatting string for foobar's status line.

++ Miranda IM ++
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Report recent message | NVDA+control+1-4 | Reports one of the recent messages, depending on the number pressed; e.g. NVDA+control+2 reads the second most recent message. |
%kc:endInclude

++ Poedit ++
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key | Description |
| Report Comments Window | control+shift+c | Reports any comments in the comments window. |
| Report notes for translators | control+shift+a | Reports any notes for translators. |
%kc:endInclude

+ Configuring NVDA +

++ Preferences ++
%kc:settingsSection: || Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Description |
Most NVDA settings can be changed using dialog boxes accessed through the Preferences sub-menu of the NVDA menu.
In all NVDA settings dialog boxes, press the OK button to accept any changes you have made.
To cancel any changes, press the Cancel button or the escape key.
Some settings can also be changed using shortcut keys, which are listed where relevant in the sections below.

+++ General Settings (NVDA+control+g) +++
The General settings dialog box is found in the Preferences menu.
It contains the following options:

==== Language ====
A combo box which allows you to select the language that NVDA's user interface and messages should be shown in.
There are many languages, however the default option is "User Default, Windows".
This option tells NVDA to use the language that Windows is currently set to.

Please note that NVDA must be restarted when changing the language.
NVDA will ask you if you wish to restart if you do change the selection.
Press OK, and NVDA will restart.

==== Save Configuration on Exit ====
This option is a checkbox that, when checked, tells NVDA to automatically save the current configuration when you exit NVDA.

==== Warn before exiting NVDA ====
This option is a checkbox that allows you to choose whether or not a dialog appears when you exit NVDA that asks whether or not you would like to exit.
When checked, a dialog will appear when you attempt to exit NVDA asking whether or not you want to exit.

==== Logging level ====
This is a combo box that permits you to choose how much NVDA will log as it's running.
Generally users should not need to touch this as not too much is logged.
However if you are wanting to provide information in a bug report, then it may be a useful option.

==== Automatically start NVDA after I log on to Windows ====
If this option is enabled, NVDA will start automatically as soon as you log on to Windows.
This option is only available for installed copies of NVDA.

==== Use NVDA on the windows Logon screen (requires administrative privileges) ====
If you log on to Windows by providing a user name and password, then enabling this option will make NVDA start automatically at the logon screen when Windows starts.
This option is only available for installed copies of NVDA.

==== Use currently saved settings on the logon and other secure screens ====
Pressing this button copies your currently saved NVDA user configuration to NVDA's system configuration directory, so that NVDA will use it when running on the logon, User Account Control (UAC) and other secure Windows screens.
To make sure that all your settings are transfered, make sure to firstly save your configuration with control+NVDA+c or save configuration in the NVDA menu.
This option is only available for installed copies of NVDA.

==== Automatically check for updates to NVDA ====
If this is enabled, NVDA will automatically check for updated versions of NVDA and inform you when an update is available.
You can also manually check for updates by selecting Check for updates under Help in the NVDA menu.

+++ Synthesizer Selection (NVDA+control+s) +++
The Synthesizer dialog, which is found under "Synthesizer..." in the Preferences menu, allows you to select which Synthesizer NVDA should use to speak with.
Once you have selected your synthesizer of choice, you can press Ok and NVDA will load the selected Synthesizer.
If there is an error loading the synthesizer, NVDA will notify you with a message, and continue using the previous synthesizer.

==== Synthesizer ====
This option allows you to choose the synthesizer you wish NVDA to use for speech output.

For a list of the Synthesizers that NVDA supports, please see the [Supported Speech Synthesizers #SupportedSpeechSynths] section.

One special item that will always appear in this list is "No speech", which allows you to use NVDA with no speech output what so ever.
This may be useful for someone who wishes to only use NVDA with Braille, or perhaps to sighted developers who only wish to use the Speech Viewer.

==== Output device ====
This option allows you to choose the sound card that NVDA should instruct the selected synthesizer to speak through.

+++ Voice Settings (NVDA+control+v) +++[VoiceSettings]
The Voice Settings dialog, found in the Preferences menu, contains options that let you change the sound of the speech.
For a quicker alternative way of controlling speech parameters from anywhere, please see the [Synth Settings Ring #SynthSettingsRing] section.

The Voice Settings dialog box contains the following options:

==== Voice ====
The first option that you land on in this dialog is a combo box listing all the voices of the current synthesizer that you have installed.
You can use the arrow keys to listen to all the various choices.
Left and Up arrow take you up in the list, while right and down arrow move you down in the list.

==== Variant ====
If you are using the Espeak synthesizer that is packaged with NVDA, this is a combo box that lets you select the Variant the synthesizer should speak with.
ESpeak's Variants are rather like voices, as they provide slightly different attributes to the eSpeak voice.
Some variants will sound like a male, some like a female, and some even like a frog.

==== Rate ====
This option allows you to change the rate of your voice.
This is a slider that goes from 0 to 100, (0 being the slowest, 100 being the fastest).

==== Pitch ====
This option allows you to change the pitch of the current voice.
It is a slider which goes from 0 to 100, (0 being the lowest pitch and 100 being the highest).

==== Volume ====
This option is a slider which goes from 0 to 100, (0 being the lowest volume and 100 being the highest).

==== Inflection ====
This option is a slider that lets you choose how much inflection (rise and fall in pitch) the synthesizer should use to speak with. (The only synthesizer that provides this option at the present time is eSpeak).

==== Automatic Language switching ====
This checkbox allows you to toggle whether or not NVDA should switch speech synthesizer languages on the fly, if language markup is available in the text being read.
This option is enabled by default.
Currently only the eSpeak synthesizer supports automatic language switching.

==== Automatic Dialect switching ====
If automatic language switching is turned on, this checkbox allows you to toggle whether or not dialect changes should be made, rather than just actual language changes. E.g. If reading in an English U.S. voice but a document states some text is in English U.K. then if this feature is enabled the synthesizer will switch accents.
This option is disabled by default.

%kc:setting
==== Punctuation/Symbol Level ====
Key: NVDA+p

This allows you to choose the amount of punctuation and other symbols that should be spoken as words.
For example, when set to all, all symbols will be spoken as words.
This option applies to all synthesizers, not just the currently active synthesizer.

==== Capital pitch change percentage ====
This edit field allows you to type the amount that the pitch of the voice will change when speaking a capital letter.
This value is a percentage, where a negative value lowers the pitch and a positive value raises it.
For no pitch change you would use 0.

==== Say "cap" before capitals ====
This setting is a checkbox that, when checked, tells NVDA to say the word "cap" before any capital letter when spoken as an individual character such as when spelling.
Usually, NVDA raises the pitch slightly for any capital letter, but some synthesizers may not support this well, so perhaps this option may be of use.

==== Beep for capitals ====
If this checkbox is checked, NVDA will make a small beep each time it encounters a capitalized character by itself.
Like the "say cap for capitals" checkbox, this is useful for Synthesizers that can't change their pitch for capital letters.

==== Use spelling functionality if supported ====[VoiceSpellingFunctionality]
Some words consist of only one character, but the pronunciation is different depending on whether the character is being spoken as an individual character (such as when spelling) or a word.
For example, in English, "a" is both a letter and a word.
This option allows the synthesizer to differentiate between these two cases if the synthesizer supports this.
Most synthesizers do support it.

This option should generally be enabled.
However, some Microsoft Speech API synthesizers do not implement this correctly and behave strangely when it is enabled.
If you are having problems with the pronunciation of individual characters, try disabling this option.

+++ Synth settings ring +++[SynthSettingsRing]
If you wish to quickly change speech settings without going to the Voice settings dialog, there are some NVDA key commands that allow you to move through the most common speech settings from anywhere while running NVDA:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Description |
| Move to next synth setting | NVDA+control+rightArrow | NVDA+shift+control+rightArrow | Moves to the next available speech setting after the current, wrapping around to the first setting again after the last |
| Move to previous synth setting | NVDA+control+leftArrow | NVDA+shift+control+leftArrow | Moves to the next available speech setting before the current, wrapping around to the last setting after the first |
| Increment current synth setting | NVDA+control+upArrow | NVDA+shift+control+upArrow | increases the current speech setting you are on. E.g. increases the rate, chooses the next voice, increases the volume |
| Decrement current synth setting | NVDA+control+downArrow | NVDA+shift+control+downArrow | decreases the current speech setting you are on. E.g. decreases the rate, chooses the previous voice, decreases the volume |
%kc:endInclude

+++ Braille Settings +++
The braille settings dialog box can be invoked by going to the preferences menu and then to the braille settings option.

==== Braille Display ====
The first option you will come upon in the braille settings dialog is a combo box that says "braille display".
You will be presented with several options depending on what braille display drivers are available on your system.
Move between these options with the arrow keys.

No braille means that you are not using braille.

Please see the [Supported Braille Displays #SupportedBrailleDisplays] section for more information about supported braille displays.

==== Port ====
This option, if available, allows you to choose what port or type of connection will be used to communicate with the braille display you have selected.
It is a combo box containing the possible choices for your braille display.

By default, NVDA employs automatic port detection, which means the connection with the braille device will be established automatically by scanning for available USB and bluetooth devices on your system.
However, for some braille displays, you may be able to explicitly choose what port should be used.
Common options are "Automatic" (which tells NVDA to employ the default automatic port selection procedure), "USB", "Bluetooth" and legacy serial communication ports if your braille display supports this type of communication.

This option won't be available if your braille display only supports automatic port detection.

You may consult the documentation for your braille display in the section [Supported Braille Displays #SupportedBrailleDisplays] to check for more details on the supported types of communication and available ports.

==== Output Table ====
The next option you will come to in this dialog is the braille output table combo box.
In this combo box, you will find braille tables for different languages, braille standards and grades.
The chosen table will be used to translate text into braille to be presented on your braille display.
You can move from braille table to braille table in the list by using the arrow keys.

==== Input Table ====
Complementary to the previous option, the next setting you will find is the braille input table combo box.
The chosen table will be used to translate braille entered on your braille display's Perkins-style keyboard into text.
NVDA currently only supports computer braille input, so only 8 dot computer braille tables will be shown.
You can move from braille table to braille table in the list by using the arrow keys.

Note that this option is only useful if your braille display has a Perkins-style keyboard and this feature is supported by the braille display driver.
If input is not supported on a display which does have a braille keyboard, this will be noted in the [Supported Braille Displays #SupportedBrailleDisplays] section.

==== Expand to computer braille for the word at the cursor ====
This option allows the word that is under the cursor to be displayed in non-contracted computer braille.

==== Cursor Blink Rate ====
This option is a numerical field that allows you to change the blink rate of the cursor in milliseconds.

==== Message Timeout (sec) ====
This option is a numerical field that controls how long NVDA messages are displayed on the braille display.
Specifying 0 disables displaying of these messages completely.

%kc:setting
==== Braille Tethered to ====[BrailleTether]
Key: NVDA+control+t

This option allows you to choose whether the braille display will follow the system focus, or whether it follows the navigator object / review cursor.

==== Read by Paragraph ====
If enabled, braille will be displayed by paragraphs instead of lines.
Also, the next and previous line commands will move by paragraph accordingly.
This means that you do not have to scroll the display at the end of each line even where more text would fit on the display.
This may allow for more fluent reading of large amounts of text.
It is disabled by default.

+++ Keyboard Settings (NVDA+control+k) +++
This dialog box is found in the Preferences menu, under "Keyboard settings...".
It contains the following options:

==== Keyboard layout ====
This combo box lets you choose what type of keyboard layout NVDA should use. Currently the two that come with NVDA are Desktop and Laptop.

==== Use capslock as an NVDA modifier key ====
If this checkbox is checked, capslock can be used as an NVDA modifier key.

==== Use extended insert as an NVDA modifier key ====
If this checkbox is checked, the extended insert key (usually found above the arrow keys, near home and end) can be used as an NVDA modifier key.

==== Use numpad insert as an NVDA modifier key ====
If this checkbox is checked, the insert key on the number pad can be used as an NVDA modifier key.

If no key is chosen as the NVDA key it may be impossible to access certain NVDA commands.
Therefore, The Keyboard Settings dialog will display an error message if all keys are unselected when pressing Ok.
After dismissing the error message, you must select at least one before being able to press Ok to dismiss the dialog properly.

%kc:setting
==== Speak Typed Characters ====
Key: NVDA+2

When enabled, NVDA will announce all characters you type on the keyboard.

%kc:setting
==== Speak Typed Words ====
Key: NVDA+3

When enabled, NVDA will announce all words you type on the keyboard.

==== Speech interrupt for typed characters ====
If on, this option will cause speech to be interrupted each time a character is typed. This is on by default.

==== Speech interrupt for Enter key ====
If on, this option will cause speech to be interrupted each time the Enter key is pressed. This is on by default.

==== Allow skim reading in Say All ====
If on, certain navigation commands (such as quick navigation in browse mode or moving by line or paragraph) do not stop Say All, rather Say All jumps to the new position and continues reading.

==== Beep if Typing Lowercase Letters when Caps Lock is On ====
When enabled, a warning beep will be heard if a letter is typed with the shift key while caps lock is on.
Generally, typing shifted letters with caps lock is unintentional and is usually due to not realising that caps lock is enabled.
Therefore, it can be quite helpful to be warned about this.

%kc:setting
==== Speak Command Keys ====
Key: NVDA+4

When enabled, NVDA will announce all non-character keys you type on the keyboard. This includes key combinations such as control plus another letter.

==== Handle keys from other applications ====
This option allows the user to control if key presses generated by applications such as on-screen keyboards and speech recognition software should be processed by NVDA. 
This option is on by default, though certain users may wish to turn this off, such as those typing Vietnamese with the Unikey typing software as it will  cause incorrect character input.

+++ Mouse Settings (NVDA+control+m) +++[MouseSettings]
The Mouse Settings dialog is found in the Preferences Menu, under "Mouse settings...".
It contains the following options:

==== Report Mouse Shape Changes ====
A checkbox, that when checked means that NVDA will announce the shape of the mouse pointer each time it changes.
The mouse pointer in Windows changes shape to convey certain information such as when something is editable, or when something is loading etc.

%kc:setting
==== Enable mouse tracking ====
Key: NVDA+m

When enabled, NVDA will announce the text currently under the mouse pointer, as you move it around the screen. This allows you to find things on the screen, by physically moving the mouse, rather than trying to find them through object navigation.

==== Text unit resolution ====
If NVDA is set to announce the text under the mouse as you move it, this option allows you to choose exactly how much text will be spoken.
The options are character, word, line and paragraph.

==== Report role when mouse enters object ====
If this checkbox is checked, NVDA will announce the role (type) of object as the mouse moves in side it.

==== Play audio coordinates when mouse moves ====
Checking this checkbox makes NVDA play beeps as the mouse moves, so that the user can work out where the mouse is in regards to the dimensions of the screen.

==== Brightness controls audio coordinates volume ====
If the "play audio coordinates when mouse moves" checkbox is checked, then checking this checkbox means that the volume of the audio coordinates beeps is controled by how bright the screen is under the mouse.
This setting is unchecked by default.

+++ Review Cursor Settings +++
Found in the Preferences menu under "Review Cursor...".
This dialog contains the following options:

%kc:setting
==== Follow System Focus ====
Key: NVDA+7

When enabled, The review cursor will always be placed in the same object as the current system focus whenever the focus changes.

%kc:setting
==== Follow System Caret ====
Key: NVDA+6

When enabled, the review cursor will automatically be moved to the position of the System caret each time it moves.

==== Follow mouse ====
When enabled, the review cursor will follow the mouse as it moves.

==== Simple Review mode ====
When enabled, NVDA will filter the hierarchy of objects that can be navigated to exclude objects that aren't of interest to the user; e.g. invisible objects and objects used only for layout purposes.

+++ Object Presentation Settings (NVDA+control+o) +++
Found in the Preferences menu under "Object Presentation...".
This dialog box contains the following options:

==== Report Tool Tips ====
A checkbox that when checked tells NVDA to report tool tips as they appear.
Many Windows and controls show a small message (or tool tip) when you move the mouse pointer over them, or sometimes when you move the focus to them.

==== Report Help Balloons ====
This checkbox when checked tells NVDA to report help balloons as they appear.
Help Balloons are like tool tips, but are usually larger in size, and are associated with system events such as a network cable being unplugged, or perhaps to alert you about Windows security issues.

==== Report Object Shortcut Keys ====
When this checkbox is checked, NVDA will include the shortcut key that is associated with a certain object or control when it is reported.
For example the File menu on a menu bar may have a shortcut key of alt+f.

==== Report object position information ====
This option lets you choose whether you wish to have an object's position (e.g. 1 of 4) reported when moving to the object with the focus or object navigation.

==== Guess Object Position Information when unavailable ====
If reporting of object position information is turned on, this option allows NVDA to guess object position information when it is otherwise unavailable for a particular control.

When on, NVDA will report position information for more controls such as menus and toolbars, however this information may be slightly inaccurate.

==== Report Object descriptions ====
Uncheck this checkbox if you don't wish to have the description reported along with objects.

%kc:setting
==== Progress bar output ====
Key: NVDA+u

This option controls how NVDA reports progress bar updates to you.

It has the following options:
- Off: Progress bars will not be reported as they change.
- Speak: This option tells NVDA to speak the progress bar in percentages. Each time the progress bar changes, NVDA will speak the new value.
- Beep: This tells NVDA to beep each time the progress bar changes. The higher the beep, the closer the progress bar is to completion.
- Beep and speak: This option tells NVDA to both beep and speak when a progress bar updates.
-

==== Report background progress bars ====
This is an option that, when checked, tells NVDA to keep reporting a progress bar, even if it is not physically in the foreground.
If you minimize or switch away from a window that contains a progress bar, NVDA will keep track of it, allowing you to do other things while NVDA tracks the progress bar.

%kc:setting
==== Report dynamic content changes ====
Key: NVDA+5

Toggles the announcement of new content in particular objects such as terminals and the history control in chat programs.

+++ Input Composition Settings +++
The Input Composition Settings dialog can be found under the Preferences menu.
This dialog allows you to control how NVDA reports the input of Asian characters, such as with IME or Text Service input methods.
Note that due to the fact that input methods vary greatly by available features and by how they convey information, it will most likely be necessary to configure these options differently for each input method to get the most efficient typing experience.

==== Automatically report all available candidates ====
This option, which is on by default,  allows you to choose whether or not all visible candidates should be reported automatically when a candidate list appears or its page is changed.
Having this option on for pictographic input methods such as chinese New ChangJie or Boshiami is useful, as you can automatically hear all symbols and their numbers and you can choose one right away.
However, for phonetic input methods such as chinese New Phonetic, it may be more useful to turn this option off, as all the symbols will sound the same and you will have to use the arrow keys to navigate the list items individually to gain more information  from the character descriptions for each candidate.

==== Announce Selected Candidate ====
This option, which is on by default, allows you to choose whether NVDA should announce the selected candidate when a candidate list appears or when the selection is changed.
For input methods where the selection can be changed with the arrow keys  (such as Chinese New Phonetic) this is necessary, but for some input methods it may be more efficient typing with this option turned off.
Note that even with this option off, the review cursor will still be placed on the selected candidate allowing you to use object navigation / review to manually read this or other candidates.

==== Always include short character descriptions for candidates ====
This option, which is on by default, allows you to choose whether or not NVDA should provide a short description for each character in a candidate, either when its selected or when its automatically read when the candidate list appears.
Note that for locales such as Chinese, the announcement of extra character descriptions for the selected candidate is not affected by this option.
This option may be useful for Korean and japanese input methods.

==== Report changes to the reading string ====
Some input methods such as Chinese New Phonetic and New ChangJie have a reading string (sometimes known as a precomposition string).
You can choose whether or not NVDA should announce new characters being typed into this reading string with this option.
This option is on by default.
Note some older input methods such as Chinese ChangJie may not use the reading string to hold precomposition characters, but instead use the composition string directly. Please see the next option for configuring reporting of the composition string.

==== Report changes to the composition string ====
After reading or precomposition data has been combined into a valid pictographic symbol, most input methods place this symbol into a composition string for temporary storage along with other combined symbols before they are finally inserted into the document.
This option allows you to choose whether or not NVDA should report new symbols as they appear  in the composition string.
This option is on by default.

+++ Browse Mode Settings (NVDA+control+b) +++
The Browse Mode settings dialog can be found in the Preferences menu, under "Browse mode...".

The dialog contains the following options:

==== Maximum Number of Characters on One Line ====
This field sets the maximum length of a line in browse mode (in characters).

==== Maximum Lines Per Page ====
This field sets the amount of lines you will move by when pressing page up or page down while in browse mode.

%kc:setting
==== Use screen layout ====
Key: NVDA+v

This option allows you to specify whether content in browse mode should place content such as links and other fields on their own line, or if it should keep them in the flow of text as it is visually shown. If the option is enabled then things will stay as they are visually shown, but if it is disabled then fields will be placed on their own line.

==== Automatic Say All on page load ====
This checkbox toggles the automatic reading of a page after it loads in browse mode.
This option is enabled by default.

==== Include layout tables ====
This option affects how NVDA handles tables used purely for layout purposes.
When on, NVDA will treat these as normal tables, reporting them based on [Document Formatting Settings #DocumentFormattingSettings] and locating them with quick navigation commands.
When off, they will not be reported nor found with quick navigation.
However, the content of the tables will still be included as normal text.
This option is turned off by default.

==== Configuring reporting of fields such as links and headings ====
Please see the options in the [Document Formatting Settings dialog #DocumentFormattingSettings] to configure the fields that are reported when navigating, such as links, headings and tables.

==== Automatic focus mode for focus changes ====
This option allows focus mode to be invoked if focus changes.
For example, when on a web page, if you press tab and you land on a form, if this option is checked, focus mode will automatically be invoked.

==== Automatic focus mode for caret movement ====
This option, when checked, allows NVDA to enter and leave focus mode when using arrow keys.
For example, if arrowing down a webpage and you land on an edit box, NVDA will automatically bring you into focus mode. If you arrow out of the edit box, NVDA will put you back in browse mode.

==== Audio indication of Focus and Browse modes ====
If this option is enabled, NVDA will play special sounds when it switches between browse mode and focus mode, rather than speaking the change.

+++ Document Formatting Settings (NVDA+control+d) +++[DocumentFormattingSettings]
This dialog box is found in the Preferences menu, under "Document Formatting...".

Most of the checkboxes in this dialog are for configuring what type of formatting you wish to have reported as you move the cursor around documents.
For example, if you check the report font name checkbox, each time you arrow onto text with a different font, the name of the font will be announced.

You can configure reporting of:
- Font name
- Font size
- Font attributes
- Text alignment
- Colors
- editor revisions
- Text style
- Spelling errors
- Page numbers
- Line numbers
- Line indentation
- Tables
- Table row/column headers
- Table cell coordinates
- Links
- Headings
- Lists
- Block quotes
- Landmarks
- Frames
-

==== Announce formatting changes after the cursor ====
If enabled, this setting tells NVDA to try and detect all the formatting changes on a line as it speaks it, even if doing this may slow down NVDA's performance.

By default, NVDA will detect the formatting at the position of the System caret / Review Cursor, and in some instances may detect formatting on the rest of the line, only if it is not going to cause a performance decrease.

Enable this option while proof reading documents in applications such as Microsoft Word, where formatting is important.

+++ Speech dictionaries +++
The speech dictionaries menu (found in the Preferences menu) contains dialogs that allow you to manage the way NVDA pronounces particular words or phrases.
There are currently three different types of speech dictionaries.
They are:
- Default: rules in this dictionary affect all speech in NVDA.
- Voice: rules in this dictionary affect speech for the synthesizer voice currently being used.
- Temporary: rules in this dictionary affect all speech in NVDA, but only for the current session. These rules are temporary and will be lost if NVDA is restarted.
-

All dictionary dialogs contain a list of rules which will be used for processing the speech.
The dialog also contains Add, Edit and remove buttons.

To add a new rule to the dictionary, press the Add button, and fill in the fields in the dialog box that appears and then press Ok.
You will then see your new rule in the list of rules.
However to make sure your rule is actually saved, make sure to press Ok to exit the dictionary dialog all together once you have finished adding/editing rules.

The rules for NVDA's speech dictionaries allow you to change one string of characters into another.
A simple example would be that you want to have NVDA say the word frog each time it is supposed to say the word bird.
In the Add rule dialog, the easiest way to do this is to type the word bird in the Pattern field, and the word frog in the Replacement field.
You may also want to type a description of the rule in the Comment field (something like: changes bird to frog).

NVDA's speech dictionaries however are much more powerful than simple word replacement.
The Add rule dialog also contains a checkbox to say whether or not you want the rule to be case sensitive (meaning that NVDA should care whether the characters are uppercase or lowercase.
NVDA ignores case by default).
Another checkbox allows you to state whether your pattern is a "Regular expression".
A regular expression is a pattern containing special symbols that allow you to match on more than one character at a time, or match on just numbers, or just letters, as a few examples.
Regular expressions are not covered in this user guide, but there are many tutorials on the web which can provide you with more information.

+++ Punctuation/symbol pronunciation +++[SymbolPronunciation]
This dialog allows you to change the way punctuation and other symbols are pronounced, as well as the symbol level at which they are spoken.

To change a symbol, first select it in the Symbols list.
The Replacement field allows you to change the text that should be spoken in place of this symbol.
Using the Level field, you can adjust the lowest symbol level at which this symbol should be spoken.

When you are finished, press the OK button to save your changes or the Cancel button to discard them.

+++ Input Gestures +++
In this dialog, you can customize the input gestures (keys on the keyboard, buttons on a braille display, etc.) for NVDA commands.

Only commands that are applicable immediately before the dialog is opened are shown.
For example, if you want to customize commands related to browse mode, you should open the Input Gestures dialog while you are in browse mode.

The tree in this dialog lists all of the applicable NVDA commands grouped by category.
Any gestures associated with a command are listed beneath the command.

To add an input gesture to a command, select the command and press the Add button.
Then, perform the input gesture you wish to associate; e.g. press a key on the keyboard or a button on a braille display.
Often, a gesture can be interpreted in more than one way.
For example, if you pressed a key on the keyboard, you may wish it to be specific to the current keyboard layout (e.g. desktop or laptop) or you may wish it to apply for all layouts.
In this case, a menu will appear allowing you to select the desired option.

To remove a gesture from a command, select the gesture and press the Remove button.

When you are finished making changes, press the OK button to save them or the Cancel button to discard them.

++ Saving and Reloading the configuration ++
By default NVDA will automatically save your settings on exit.
Note, however, that this option can be changed under the general options in the preferences menu.
To save the settings manually at any time, choose the Save configuration item in the NVDA menu.

If you ever make a mistake with your settings and need to revert back to the saved settings, choose the "revert to saved configuration" item in the NVDA menu.
You can also reset your settings to their original factory defaults by choosing Reset Configuration To Factory Defaults, which is also found in the NVDA menu.

The following NVDA key commands are also useful:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Desktop key | Laptop key | Description |
| Save configuration | NVDA+control+c | NVDA+control+c | Saves your current configuration so that it is not lost when you exit NVDA |
| Revert  configuration | NVDA+control+r | NVDA+control+r | Pressing once resets your configuration to when you last saved it. Pressing three times will reset it back to factory defaults. |
%kc:endInclude

++ Configuration Profiles ++
Sometimes, you may wish to have different settings for different situations.
For example, you may wish to have reporting of indentation enabled while you are editing or reporting of font attributes enabled while you are proofreading.
NVDA allows you to do this using configuration profiles.

A configuration profile contains only those settings which are changed while the profile is being edited.
Most settings can be changed in configuration profiles except for those in the General Settings dialog, which apply to the entirety of NVDA.

Configuration profiles can be manually activated.
They can also be activated automatically due to triggers such as switching to a particular application.

+++ Basic Management +++
You manage configuration profiles by selecting "Configuration profiles" in the NVDA menu.
You can also do this using a key command:
%kc:beginInclude
- NVDA+control+p: Show the Configuration Profiles dialog.
-
%kc:endInclude

The first control in this dialog is the profile list from which you can select one of the available profiles.
When you open the dialog, the profile you are currently editing is selected.
Additional information is also shown for active profiles, indicating whether they are manually activated, triggered and/or being edited.

To rename or delete a profile, press the Rename or Delete buttons, respectively.

Press the Close button to close the dialog.

+++ Creating a Profile +++
To create a profile, press the New button.

In the New Profile dialog, you can enter a name for the profile.
You can also select how this profile should be used.
If you only want to use this profile manually, select Manual activation, which is the default.
Otherwise, select a trigger which should automatically activate this profile.
For convenience, if you haven't entered a name for the profile, selecting a trigger will fill in the name accordingly.
See [below #ConfigProfileTriggers] for more information about triggers.

Pressing OK will create the profile and close the Configuration Profiles dialog so you can edit it.

+++ Manual Activation +++[ConfigProfileManual]
You can manually activate a profile by selecting a profile and pressing the Manual activate button.
Once activated, other profiles can still be activated due to triggers, but any settings in the manually activated profile will override them.
For example, if a profile is triggered for the current application and reporting of links is enabled in that profile but disabled it in the manually activated profile, links will not be reported.
However, if you have changed the voice in the triggered profile but have never changed it in the manually activated profile, the voice from the triggered profile will be used.
Any settings you change will be saved in the manually activated profile.
To deactivate a manually activated profile, select it in the Configuration Profiles dialog and press the Manual deactivate button.

+++ Triggers +++[ConfigProfileTriggers]
Pressing the Triggers button in the Configuration Profiles dialog allows you to change the profiles which should be automatically activated for various triggers.

The Triggers list shows the available triggers, which are as follows:
- Current application: Triggered when you switch to the current application.
- Say all: Triggered while reading with the say all command.
-

To change the profile which should be automatically activated for a trigger, select the trigger and then select the desired profile from the Profile list.
You can select (normal configuration) if you don't want a profile to be used.

Press the Close button to return to the Configuration Profiles dialog.

+++ Editing a Profile +++
If you have manually activated a profile, any settings you change will be saved to that profile.
Otherwise, any settings you change will be saved to the most recently triggered profile.
For example, if you have associated a profile with the Notepad application and you switch to Notepad, any changed settings will be saved to that profile.
Finally, if there is neither a manually activated nor a triggered profile, any settings you change will be saved to your normal configuration.

To edit the profile associated with say all, you must [manually activate #ConfigProfileManual] that profile.

+++ Temporarily Disabling Triggers +++
Sometimes, it is useful to temporarily disable all triggers.
For example, you might wish to edit a manually activated profile or your normal configuration without triggered profiles interfering.
You can do this by checking the Temporarily disable all triggers checkbox in the Configuration Profiles dialog.

++ Location of Configuration files ++
Portable versions of NVDA store all settings, custom appModules and custom drivers in a directory called userConfig, found in the NVDA directory.

Installed versions of NVDA store all settings, custom appModules and custom drivers in a special NVDA directory located in your Windows user profile.
This means that each user on the system can have their own NVDA settings.
To get to your settings directory for an installed version of NVDA, on the start menu you can go to programs -> NVDA -> explore user configuration directory.

Settings for NVDA when running on the logon or UAC screens are stored in the systemConfig directory in NVDA's installation directory.
Usually, this configuration should not be touched.
To change NVDA's configuration on the logon/UAC screens, configure NVDA as you wish while logged into Windows, save the configuration, and then press the "Use currently saved settings on the logon and other secure screens" button in the General Settings dialog.

+ Extra Tools +

++ Log Viewer ++
The log viewer, found under Tools in the NVDA menu, allows you to view all the logging output that has occured up until now from when you last started NVDA.

Apart from reading the content, you can also Save a copy of the log file, or refresh the viewer so that it shows the most recent output since the Log viewer was opened.
These actions are available under the viewer's Log menu.

++ Speech Viewer ++
For sighted software developers or people demoing NVDA to sighted audiences, a floating window is available that allows you to view all the text that NVDA is currently speaking.

To enable the speech viewer, check the "Speech Viewer" menu item under Tools in the NVDA menu.
Uncheck the menu item to disable it.

While the speech viewer is enabled, it constantly updates to show you the most current text being spoken.
However, if you click or focus inside the viewer, NVDA will temporarily stop updating the text, so that you are able to easily select or copy the existing content.

++ Add-ons Manager ++
The Add-ons Manager, accessed by selecting Manage add-ons under Tools in the NVDA menu, allows you to install and uninstall add-on packages for NVDA.
These packages are provided by the community and contain custom code that may add or change features in NVDA or even provide support for extra Braille displays or speech synthesizers.

The Add-ons Manager contains a list that displays all the add-ons currently installed in your NVDA user configuration. 
A package name, version and author are shown for each add-on, though further information such as a description and URL can be viewed by selecting the add-on and pressing the About add-on button.

To browse and download available add-ons online, press the Get add-ons button.
This button opens the [NVDA Add-ons page http://addons.nvda-project.org/].
If NVDA is installed on your system, you can open the add-on directly from the browser to begin the installation process as described below.
Otherwise, save the add-on package and follow the instructions below.

To install an Add-on you previously obtained, press the Install button.
This will allow you to browse for an add-on package (.nvda-addon file) somewhere on your computer or on a network.
Once you press Open, the installation process will begin.

When an add-on is being installed, NVDA will first ask you to confirm that you really wish to install the add-on.
As the functionality of add-ons is unrestricted inside NVDA, which in theory could include accessing your personal data or even the entire system if NVDA is an installed copy, it is very important to only install add-ons from sources you trust.
Once the add-on is installed, NVDA must be restarted for the add-on to start running. 
Until you do, a status of "install" will show for that add-on in the list.

To remove an add-on, select the add-on from the list and press the Remove button.
NVDA will ask if you really wish to do this.
As with installing, NVDA must be restarted for the add-on to be fully  removed.
Until you do, a status of "remove" will be shown for that add-on in the list.

The manager also has a Close button to close the dialog.
If you have installed or removed add-ons, NVDA will first ask you if you wish to restart so that your changes can take effect.

In the past it has been possible to extend NVDA's functionality by copying individual plugins and drivers in to your NVDA user Configuration directory.
Although this version of NVDA  may still   load them, they will not be shown in the Add-on Manager.
It is best to remove these files from your configuration and install  the appropriate add-on if one is available.

++ Python Console ++
The NVDA Python console, found under Tools in the NVDA menu, is a development tool which is useful for debugging, general inspection of NVDA internals or inspection of the accessibility hierarchy of an application.
For more information, please see the Developer Guide available from [the Development section of the NVDA web site http://community.nvda-project.org/wiki/Development].

++ Reload plugins ++
This item, once activated, reloads app modules and global plugins without restarting NVDA, which can be useful for developers.

+ Supported Speech Synthesizers +[SupportedSpeechSynths]
This section contains information about the speech synthesizers supported by NVDA.
For an even more extensive list of  free and commercial synthesizers that you can purchase and download for use with NVDA, please see the page at [http://www.nvda-project.org/wiki/ExtraVoices http://www.nvda-project.org/wiki/ExtraVoices].

++ eSpeak ++
The [eSpeak http://espeak.sourceforge.net/] synthesizer is built directly into NVDA and does not require any other special drivers or components to be installed.
NVDA starts using eSpeak by default.
As this synthesizer is built into NVDA, this is a great choice for when running NVDA off a USB thumb drive on other systems.

Each voice that comes with eSpeak speaks a different language.
There are over 43 different languages supported by eSpeak.

There are also many variants which can be chosen to alter the sound of the voice.

++ Microsoft Speech API version 4 (SAPI 4) ++
SAPI 4 is an older Microsoft standard for software speech synthesizers.
Many speech synthesizers that comply with this standard may be purchased or downloaded for free from various companies and websites.
When using this synthesizer with NVDA, the available voices (accessed from the [Voice Settings dialog #VoiceSettings] or by the [Synth Settings Ring #SynthSettingsRing]) will contain all the voices from all the installed SAPI 4 engines found on your system.

If you have SAPI 4 voices installed but the synthesizer does not appear in NVDA's list of synthesizers, please install the SAPI 4.0 runtime binaries, available at http://activex.microsoft.com/activex/controls/sapi/spchapi.exe.

++ Microsoft Speech API version 5 (SAPI 5) ++
SAPI 5 is a Microsoft standard for software speech synthesizers.
Many speech synthesizers that comply with this standard may be purchased or downloaded for free from various companies and websites, though your system will probably already come with at least one SAPI 5 voice preinstalled.
When using this synthesizer with NVDA, the available voices (accessed from the [Voice Settings dialog #VoiceSettings] or by the [Synth Settings Ring #SynthSettingsRing]) will contain all the voices from all the installed SAPI 5 engines found on your system.

++ Microsoft Speech Platform ++
The Microsoft Speech Platform provides voices for many languages which are normally used in the development of server-based speech applications.
These voices can also be used with NVDA.

To use these voices, you will need to install two components:
- Microsoft Speech Platform - Runtime (Version 11) , x86: http://www.microsoft.com/download/en/details.aspx?id=27225
- Microsoft Speech Platform - Runtime Languages (Version 11): http://www.microsoft.com/download/en/details.aspx?id=27224
 - This page includes many files for both speech recognition and text-to-speech.
 Choose the files containing the TTS data for the desired languages/voices.
 For example, the file MSSpeech_TTS_en-US_ZiraPro.msi is a U.S. English voice.
 -
-

++ Audiologic Tts3 ++
This is a commercial speech synthesizer specifically for the Italian language.
You must have the synthesizer installed on your system in order for it to be used with NVDA.
For more information, please visit the Audiologic website at www.audiologic.it.

This synthesizer does not support [spelling functionality #VoiceSpellingFunctionality].

++ Newfon ++
Newfon is a free commercial synthesizer by Sergey Shishmintzev which supports the Russian and Ukrainian languages.
To download this synthesizer, please visit the downloads section of the Russian NVDA community site: http://ru.nvda-community.org/?page_id=10

This synthesizer does not support [spelling functionality #VoiceSpellingFunctionality].

++ Nuance Vocalizer for NVDA ++
Nuance Vocalizer is a commercial, high quality voice synthesizer developed by Nuance Communications, Inc. and packaged specifically for NVDA by Tiflotecnia, Lda.
It contains over 50 different voices you can install, speaking over 30 languages.
All synthesizer components and voices are bundled in add-on packages, which allows for full usage in portable copies of NVDA.

You can get more information about Nuance Vocalizer for NVDA and how to buy it on its web site at [www.vocalizer-nvda.com http://www.vocalizer-nvda.com/].
A percentage of sales of this product is donated to NV Access to fund further development of the NVDA Screen Reader.

+ Supported Braille Displays +[SupportedBrailleDisplays]
This section contains information about the Braille displays supported by NVDA.

++ Freedom Scientific Focus/PAC Mate Series ++
All Focus and PAC Mate displays from [Freedom Scientific http://www.freedomscientific.com/] are supported when connected via USB or bluetooth.
You will need the Freedom Scientific braille display drivers installed on your system.
If you do not have them already, you can obtain them from http://www.freedomscientific.com/downloads/focus-40-blue/focus-40-14-blue-downloads.asp.
Although this page only mentions the Focus Blue display, the drivers support all Freedom Scientific Focus and Pacmate displays.
If your system is running 64 bit Windows and the drivers were already installed by another screen reader, you will probably still need to install the drivers from this link, as the files required by NVDA were probably not installed by the other screen reader.

By default, NVDA can automatically detect and connect to these displays either via USB or bluetooth.
However, when configuring the display, you can explicitly select "USB" or "Bluetooth" ports to restrict the connection type to be used.
This might be useful if you want to connect the focus display to NVDA using bluetooth, but still be able to charge it using USB power from your computer.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | topRouting1 (first cell on display) |
| Scroll braille display forward | topRouting20/40/80 (last cell on display) |
| Scroll braille display back | leftAdvanceBar |
| Scroll braille display forward | rightAdvanceBar |
| Toggle braille tethered to | leftGDFButton+rightGDFButton |
| Toggle left wiz wheel action | leftWizWheelPress |
| Move back using left wiz wheel action | leftWizWheelUp |
| Move forward using left wiz wheel action | leftWizWheelDown |
| Toggle right wiz wheel action | rightWizWheelPress |
| Move back using right wiz wheel action | rightWizWheelUp |
| Move forward using right wiz wheel action | rightWizWheelDown |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| backspace key | dot7 |
| enter key | dot8 |
| shift+tab key | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot2 |
| tab key | brailleSpaceBar+dot4+dot5 |
| upArrow key | brailleSpaceBar+dot1 |
| downArrow key | brailleSpaceBar+dot4 |
| control+leftArrow key | brailleSpaceBar+dot2 |
| control+rightArrow key | brailleSpaceBar+dot5 |
| leftArrow | brailleSpaceBar+dot3 |
| rightArrow key | brailleSpaceBar+dot6 |
| home key | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot3 |
| end key | brailleSpaceBar+dot4+dot6 |
| control+home key | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot2+dot3 |
| control+end key | brailleSpaceBar+dot4+dot5+dot6 |
| alt key | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot3+dot4 |
| alt+tab key | brailleSpaceBar+dot2+dot3+dot4+dot5 |
| escape key | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot5 |
| windows key | brailleSpaceBar+dot2+dot4+dot5+dot6 |
| space key | brailleSpaceBar |
| windows+d key (minimize all applications) | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot2+dot3+dot4+dot5+dot6 |
| Report Current Line | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot4 |
| NVDA menu | brailleSpaceBar+dot1+dot3+dot4+dot5 |

For newer Focus models that contain rocker bar keys (focus 40, focus 80 and focus blue):
|| Name | Key |
| Move braille display to previous line | leftRockerBarUp, rightRockerBarUp |
| Move braille display to next line | leftRockerBarDown, rightRockerBarDown |

For Focus 80 only:
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | leftBumperBarUp, rightBumperBarUp |
| Scroll braille display forward | leftBumperBarDown, rightBumperBarDown |
%kc:endInclude

++ Optelec ALVA BC640/680 ++
Both the ALVA BC640 and BC680 displays from [Optelec http://www.optelec.com/] are supported when connected via USB or bluetooth.
You do not need any specific drivers to be installed to use these displays.
Just plug in the display and configure NVDA to use it.

While these displays do have a braille keyboard, they handle translation from braille to text themselves.
Therefore, NVDA's braille input table setting is not relevant.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | t1 |
| Move braille display to previous line | t2 |
| Move braille display to next line | t4 |
| Scroll braille display forward | t5 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| shift+tab key | sp1 |
| alt key | sp2 |
| escape key | sp3 |
| tab key | sp4 |
| upArrow key | spUp |
| downArrow key | spDown |
| leftArrow key | spLeft |
| rightArrow key | spRight |
| enter key | spEnter |
| NVDA Menu | sp1+sp3 |
| windows+d key (minimize all applications) | sp1+sp4 |
| windows key | sp2+sp3 |
| alt+tab key | sp2+sp4 |
%kc:endInclude

++ Handy Tech Displays ++
NVDA supports all displays from [Handy Tech http://www.handytech.de/] when connected via USB or bluetooth.
For older USB displays, you will need to install the USB drivers from Handy Tech on your system.

Braille input is not yet supported.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left, up |
| Scroll braille display forward | right, down |
| Move braille display to previous line | b4 |
| Move braille display to next line | b5 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| shift+tab key | esc |
| alt key | b2+b4+b5 |
| escape key | b4+b6 |
| tab key | enter |
| enter key | esc+enter |
| upArrow key | leftSpace |
| downArrow key | rightSpace |
| NVDA Menu | b2+b4+b5+b6 |
| Handy Tech configuration | b4+b8 |
%kc:endInclude

++ MDV Lilli ++
The Lilli braille display available from [MDV http://www.mdvbologna.it/] is supported.
You do not need any specific drivers to be installed to use this display.
Just plug in the display and configure NVDA to use it.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display backward | LF |
| Scroll braille display forward | RG |
| Move braille display to previous line | UP |
| Move braille display to next line | DN |
| Route to braille cell | route |
| shift+tab key | SLF |
| tab key | SRG |
| alt+tab key | SDN |
| alt+shift+tab key | SUP |
%kc:endInclude

++ Baum/Humanware/APH Braille Displays ++
Several [Baum http://www.baum.de/cms/en/], [HumanWare http://www.humanware.com/] and [APH http://www.aph.org/] displays are supported when connected via USB or bluetooth.
These include:
- Baum: SuperVario, PocketVario
- HumanWare: Brailliant, BrailleConnect
- APH: Refreshabraille
-
Some other displays manufactured by Baum may also work, though this has not been tested.

If connecting via USB, you must first install the USB drivers provided by the manufacturer.
For the APH Refreshabraille, the USB mode must be set to serial.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | d2 |
| Scroll braille display forward | d5 |
| Move braille display to previous line | d1 |
| Move braille display to next line | d3 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |

For displays which have a joystick:
|| Name | Key |
| upArrow key | up |
| downArrow key | down |
| leftArrow key | left |
| rightArrow key | right |
| enter key | select |
%kc:endInclude

++ hedo ProfiLine USB ++
The hedo ProfiLine USB from [hedo Reha-Technik http://www.hedo.de/] is supported.
You must first install the USB drivers provided by the manufacturer.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | K1 |
| Scroll braille display forward | K3 |
| Move braille display to previous line | B2 |
| Move braille display to next line | B5 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Toggle braille tethered to | K2 |
| Say all | B6 |
%kc:endInclude

++ hedo MobilLine USB ++
The hedo MobilLine USB from [hedo Reha-Technik http://www.hedo.de/] is supported.
You must first install the USB drivers provided by the manufacturer.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | K1 |
| Scroll braille display forward | K3 |
| Move braille display to previous line | B2 |
| Move braille display to next line | B5 |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Toggle braille tethered to | K2 |
| Say all | B6 |
%kc:endInclude

++ HumanWare Brailliant BI/B Series ++
The Brailliant BI and B series of displays from [HumanWare http://www.humanware.com/], including the BI 32, BI 40 and B 80, are supported when connected via USB or bluetooth.
If connecting via USB, you must first install the USB drivers provided by the manufacturer.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left |
| Scroll braille display forward | right |
| Move braille display to previous line | up |
| Move braille display to next line | down |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Toggle braille tethered to | up+down |
| upArrow key | space+dot1 |
| downArrow key | space+dot4 |
| leftArrow key | space+dot3 |
| rightArrow key | space+dot6 |
| NVDA Menu | c1+c3+c4+c5 (command n) |
| shift+tab key | space+dot1+dot3 |
| tab key | space+dot4+dot6 |
| alt key | space+dot1+dot3+dot4 (space+m) |
| escape key | space+dot1+dot5 (space+e) |
| enter key | dot8 |
| windows+d key (minimize all applications) | c1+c4+c5 (command d) |
| windows key | space+dot3+dot4 |
| alt+tab key | space+dot2+dot3+dot4+dot5 (space+t) |
| Say all | c1+c2+c3+c4+c5+c6 |
%kc:endInclude

++ HIMS Braille Sense/Braille EDGE Series ++
NVDA supports Braille Sense and Braille EDGE displays from [Hims http://www.hims-inc.com/] when connected via USB or bluetooth. 
If connecting via USB, you will need to install the USB drivers from HIMS on your system.
You can download these from the HIMS Resource Center: http://www.hims-inc.com/resource-center/
On this page, select your device and download the driver in the Window-Eyes section.
Although the section only mentions Window-Eyes, this is a general USB driver which will work with NVDA as well.

Following are the key assignments for these displays with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left side scroll down |
| Scroll braille display forward | right side scroll down |
| Move braille display to previous line | left side scroll up |
| Move braille display to next line | right side scroll up |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| shift+tab key | dot1+dot2+space |
| alt key | dot1+dot3+dot4+Space |
| escape key | dot1+dot5+Space |
| tab key | dot4+dot5+Space |
| enter key | dot8 |
| backspace key | dot7 |
| upArrow key | dot1+Space |
| downArrow key | dot4+Space |
| capsLock | dot1+dot3+dot6+space |
| shift+alt+tab key | advance2+advance3+advance1 |
| alt+tab key | advance2+advance3 |
| end key | dot4+dot6+space |
| Control+end key | dot4+dot5+dot6+space |
| home key | dot1+dot3+space |
| control+home key | dot1+dot2+dot3+space |
| leftArrow key | dot3+space |
| control+shift+leftArrow key | dot2+dot8+space+advance1 |
| control+leftArrow key | dot2+space |
| shift+alt+leftArrow key | dot2+dot7+advance1 |
| alt+leftArrow key | dot2+dot7 |
| rightArrow key | dot6+space |
| control+shift+rightArrow key | dot5+dot8+space+advance1 |
| control+rightArrow key | dot5+space |
| shift+alt+rightArrow key | dot5+dot7+advance1 |
| alt+rightArrow key | dot5+dot7 |
| pageUp key | dot1+dot2+dot6+space |
| control+pageUp key | dot1+dot2+dot6+dot8+space |
| control+shift+upArrow key | dot2+dot3+dot8+space+advance1 |
| control+upArrow key | dot2+dot3+space |
| shift+alt+upArrow key | dot2+dot3+dot7+advance1 |
| alt+upArrow key | dot2+dot3+dot7 |
| shift+upArrow key | left side scroll down + space |
| pageDown key | dot3+dot4+dot5+space |
| control+pagedown key | dot3+dot4+dot5+dot8+space |
| control+shift+downArrow key | dot5+dot6+dot8+space+advance1 |
| control+downArrow key | dot5+dot6+space |
| shift+alt+downArrow key | dot5+dot6+dot7+advance1 |
| alt+downArrow key | dot5+dot6+dot7 |
| shift+downArrow key | right side scroll down + space |
| delete key | dot1+dot3+dot5+space |
| f1 key | dot1+dot2+dot5+space |
| f3 key | dot1+dot2+dot4+dot8 |
| f4 key | dot7+advance3 |
| windows+b key | dot1+dot2+advance1 |
| windows+d key | dot1+dot4+dot5+advance1 |
%kc:endInclude

++ HIMS SyncBraille ++
NVDA supports the SyncBraille Display from [HIMS http://www.hims-inc.com/].
You will need to install the USB drivers from HIMS on your system.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left side scroll down |
| Scroll braille display forward | right side scroll down |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
%kc:endInclude

++ Seika Braille Displays ++
The Seika Version 3, 4 and 5 (40 cells) and Seika80 (80 cells) braille displays from [Nippon Telesoft http://www.nippontelesoft.com/] are supported.
You can find more information about these displays at http://www.seika-braille.com/.
You must first install the USB drivers provided by the manufacturer.

Following are the key assignments for this display with NVDA.
Please see the display's documentation for descriptions of where these keys can be found.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left |
| Scroll braille display forward | right |
| Move braille display to previous line | b3 |
| Move braille display to next line | b4 |
| Toggle braille tethered to | b5 |
| Say all | b6 |
| tab | b1 |
| shift+tab | b2 |
| alt+tab | b1+b2 |
| NVDA Menu | left+right |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
%kc:endInclude

++ Papenmeier BRAILLEX Newer Models ++
The following Braille displays are supported: 
- BRAILLEX EL 40c, EL 80c, EL 20c, EL 60c (USB)
- BRAILLEX EL 40s, EL 80s, EL 2d80s, EL 70s, EL 66s (USB)
- BRAILLEX Trio (USB and bluetooth)
-

If BrxCom is installed, NVDA will use BrxCom.
BrxCom is a tool that allows you to use the Braille input independently from a screen reader.
A new version of BrxCom which works with NVDA will be released by Papenmeier soon.  
However, braille input is possible with the Trio device without BrxCom.

Most devices have an Easy Access Bar (EAB) that allows intuitive and fast operation.
The EAB can be moved in four directions where generally each direction has two switches.
The c-series is the only exception to this rule.

The c-series and some other displays have two routing rows whereby the upper row is used to report formatting information.
Holding one of the upper routing keys and pressing the EAB on c-series devices emulates the second switch state.
Pressing and holding the up, down, right and left keys (or EAB) causes the corresponding action to be repeated.

Generally, the following keys are available on these braille displays:
|| Name | Key |
| l1 | Left front key |
| l2 | Left rear key |
| r1 | Right front key |
| r2 | Right rear key |
| up | 1 Step up |
| up2 | 2 Steps up |
| left | 1 Step left |
| left2 | 2 Steps left |
| right | 1 Step right |
| right2 | 2 Steps right |
| dn | 1 Step down |
| dn2 | 2 Steps down |

Following are the Papenmeier command assignments for NVDA:
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left |
| Scroll braille display forward | right |
| Move braille display to previous line | up |
| Move braille display to next line | dn |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Report current character in review | l1 |
| Activate current navigator object | l2 |
| Report title | l1+up |
| Report Status Bar | l2+down |
| Move to containing object | up2 |
| Move to first contained object | dn2 |
| Move to previous object | left2 |
| Move to next object | right2 |
| Report text formatting | upper routing row |
%kc:endInclude

The Trio model has four additional keys which are in front of the braille keyboard.
These are (ordered from left to right):
- left thumb key (lt)
- space
- space
- right thumb key (rt)
-
Currently, the right thumb key is not in use.
The inner keys are both mapped to space.

%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| backspace key | dot 7 |
| enter key | dot 8 |
| escape key | space with dot 7 |
| upArrow key | space with dot 2 |
| leftArrow key | space with dot 1 |
| rightArrow key | space with dot 4 |
| downArrow | space with dot 5 |
| control key | lt+dot2 |
| alt key | lt+dot3 |
| control+escape key | space with dot 1 2 3 4 5 6 |
| tab key | space with dot 3 7 |
%kc:endInclude 

++ Papenmeier Braille BRAILLEX Older Models ++
The following Braille displays are supported: 
- BRAILLEX EL 80, EL 2D-80, EL 40 P
- BRAILLEX Tiny, 2D Screen
-

Note that these displays can only be connected via a serial port.
Therefore, you should select the port to which the display is connected after you have chosen this driver in the Braille Settings dialogue.

Some of these devices have an Easy Access Bar (EAB) that allows intuitive and fast operation.
The EAB can be moved in four directions where generally each direction has two switches.
Pressing and holding the up, down, right and left keys (or EAB) causes the corresponding action to be repeated.
Older devices do not have an EAB; front keys are used instead.

Generally, the following keys are available on braille displays:

|| Name | Key |
| l1 | Left front key |
| l2 | Left rear key |
| r1 | Right front key |
| r2 | Right rear key |
| up | 1 Step up |
| up2 | 2 Steps up |
| left | 1 Step left |
| left2 | 2 Steps left |
| right | 1 Step right |
| right2 | 2 Steps right |
| dn | 1 Step down |
| dn2 | 2 Steps down |

Following are the Papenmeier command assignments for NVDA:

%kc:beginInclude
Devices with EAB:
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | left |
| Scroll braille display forward | right |
| Move braille display to previous line | up |
| Move braille display to next line | dn |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Report current character in review | l1 |
| Activate current navigator object | l2 |
| Report title | l1up |
| Report Status Bar | l2down |
| Move to containing object | up2 |
| Move to first contained object | dn2 |
| Move to next object | right2 |
| Move to previous object | left2 |
| Report text formatting | Upper routing strip |

BRAILLEX Tiny:
|| Name | Key |
| Report current character in review | l1 |
| Activate current navigator object | l2 |
| Scroll braille display back | left |
| Scroll braille display forward | right |
| Move braille display to previous line | up |
| Move braille display to next line | dn |
| Toggle braille tethered to | r2 |
| Move to containing object | r1+up |
| Move to first contained object | r1+dn |
| Move to previous object | r1+left |
| Move to next object | r1+right |
| Report text formatting | reportf |

BRAILLEX 2D Screen:
|| Name | Key |
| Report current character in review | l1 |
| Activate current navigator object | l2 |
| Toggle braille tethered to | r2 |
| Report text formatting | reportf |
| Move braille display to previous line | up |
| Scroll braille display back | left |
| Scroll braille display forward | right |
| Move braille display to next line | dn |
| Move to next object | left2 |
| Move to containing object | up2 |
| Move to first contained object | dn2 |
| Move to previous object | right2 |
%kc:endInclude

++ HumanWare BrailleNote ++
NVDA supports the BrailleNote notetakers from [Humanware http://www.humanware.com] when acting as a display terminal for a screen reader.
The following models are supported:
- BrailleNote Classic (serial connection only)
- BrailleNote PK (Serial and bluetooth connections)
- BrailleNote MPower (Serial and bluetooth connections)
- BrailleNote Apex (USB and Bluetooth connections)
-

If your device supports more than one type of connection, when connecting your BrailleNote to NVDA, you must set the braille terminal port in braille terminal options.
Please check the BrailleNote manual for details.
In NVDA, you may also need to set the port in the Braille Settings dialog.
If you are connecting via USB or bluetooth, you can set the port to "Automatic", "USB" or "Bluetooth", depending on the available choices.
If connecting using a legacy serial port (or a USB to serial converter) or if none of the previous options appear, you must explicitly choose the communication port to be used from the list of hardware ports.

Before connecting your BrailleNote Apex using its USB client interface, you must install the drivers provided by HumanWare.

Following are the BrailleNote command assignments for NVDA.
Please check your BrailleNote's documentation to find where these keys are located.

%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | Key |
| Scroll braille display back | back |
| Scroll braille display forward | advance |
| Move braille display to previous line | previous |
| Move braille display to next line | next |
| Route to braille cell | routing |
| Toggle braille tethered to | previous+next |
| Up arrow key | space+dot1 |
| Down arrow key | space+dot4 |
| Left Arrow key | space+dot3 |
| Right arrow key | space+dot6 |
| Page up key | space+dot1+dot3 |
| Page down key | space+dot4+dot6 |
| Home key | space+dot1+dot2 |
| End key | space+dot4+dot5 |
| Control+home keys | space+dot1+dot2+dot3 |
| Control+end keys | space+dot4+dot5+dot6 |
| Space key | space |
| Enter key | space+dot8 |
| Backspace key | space+dot7 |
| Tab key | space+dot2+dot3+dot4+dot5 (space+t) |
| Shift+tab keys | space+dot1+dot2+dot5+dot6 |
| Windows key | space+dot2+dot4+dot5+dot6 (space+w) |
| Alt key | space+dot1+dot3+dot4 (space+m) |
| Toggle input help | space+dot2+dot3+dot6 (space+lower h) |
%kc:endInclude

++ BRLTTY ++
[BRLTTY http://mielke.cc/brltty/] is a separate program which can be used to support many more braille displays.
In order to use this, you need to install [BRLTTY for Windows http://brl.thefreecat.org/brltty/].
You should download and install the latest installer package, which will be named, for example, brltty-win-4.2-2.exe.
When configuring the display and port to use, be sure to pay close attention to the instructions, especially if you are using a USB display and already have the manufacturer's drivers installed.

For displays which have a braille keyboard, BRLTTY currently handles braille input itself.
Therefore, NVDA's braille input table setting is not relevant.

Following are the BRLTTY command assignments for NVDA.
Please see the [BRLTTY key tables documentation http://mielke.cc/brltty/doc/drivers/] for information about how BRLTTY commands are mapped to controls on braille displays.
%kc:beginInclude
|| Name | BRLTTY command |
| Scroll braille display back | fwinlt (go left one window) |
| Scroll braille display forward | fwinrt (go right one window) |
| Move braille display to previous line | lnup (go up one line) |
| Move braille display to next line | lndn (go down one line) |
| Route to braille cell | route (bring cursor to character) |
%kc:endInclude

+ Advanced Topics +

++ Advanced Customization of Symbol Pronunciation ++
It is possible to customize the pronunciation of punctuation and other symbols beyond what can be done using the [Punctuation/symbol pronunciation #SymbolPronunciation] dialog.
For example, you can specify whether the raw symbol should be sent to the synthesizer (e.g. to cause a pause or change in inflection) and you can add custom symbols.

To do this, you must edit the symbol pronunciation information file in your NVDA user configuration directory.
The file is called symbols-xx.dic, where xx is the language code.
The format of this file is documented in the Symbol Pronunciation section of the NVDA Developer Guide, which is available from [the Development section of the NVDA web site http://community.nvda-project.org/wiki/Development].
However, it is not possible for users to define complex symbols.

+ Further Information +
If you require further information or assistance regarding NVDA, please visit the NVDA web site at NVDA_URL.
Here, you can find additional documentation, as well as technical support and community resources.
This site also provides information and resources concerning NVDA development.
